## An inverted Caveolin-1 topology defines a novel exosome secreted from prostate cancer cells

Nicholas Ariotti 1,2ɸ *, Yeping Wu 1 *, Satomi Okano 1# *, Yann Gambin 1§ , Jordan Follett 1 , James Rae 1 , Charles Ferguson 1 , Rohan D. Teasdale 1,3ɣ , Kirill Alexandrov 1Ω , Frederic A. Meunier 4 , Michelle M. Hill 5# and Robert G. Parton 1,6

- 1 The University of Queensland, The Institute for Molecular Bioscience, Brisbane, Queensland 4072, Australia.
- 2 Mark Wainwright Analytical Centre, Electron Microscope Unit, The University of New South Wales, Sydney 2052 Australia.
- 3 The University of Queensland, School of Biomedical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, Brisbane, Queensland 4072, Australia.
- 4 The University of Queensland, Clem Jones Centre for Ageing Dementia Research, Queensland Brain Institute, Brisbane, Queensland 4072, Australia.
- 5 The University of Queensland, UQ Diamantina Institute, Woolloongabba, Brisbane, Queensland 4102 Australia.
- 6 The  University  of  Queensland,  The  Centre  for  Microscopy  and  Microanalysis,  Brisbane, Queensland 4072, Australia.

## * Equal contribution

## Current Address:

- ɸ Mark Wainwright Analytical Centre, Electron Microscope Unit and School of Medical Sciences, The University of New South Wales, Sydney 2052, Australia.
- ɣ The University of Queensland, School of Biomedical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, Brisbane, Queensland 4072, Australia.
- # QIMR Berghofer Medical Research Institute, Brisbane, Queensland 4006, Australia.
- § EMBL Australia Node for Single Molecule Sciences, School of Medical Sciences, The University of New South Wales, Sydney 2052, Australia.
- Ω   CSIRO-QUT  Synthetic  Biology  Alliance,  ARC  Centre  of  Excellence  in  Synthetic  Biology, Centre for Agriculture and the Bioeconomy, Institute of Health and Biomedical Innovation, School of  Biology  and  Environmental  Science,  Queensland  University  of  Technology,  Brisbane, Queensland 4001, Australia.

## Running Title: Caveolin-1 secretion from prostate cancer cells

To whom correspondence should be addressed: Robert G. Parton, Division of Cell Biology and Molecular  Medicine,  Institute  for  Molecular  Bioscience,  The  University  of  Queensland,  306 Carmody Rd, St Lucia, QLD, Australia, 4072, Tel.: (+61) 7-3346-2032; Fax: (+61) 7-3365-1766 Email: r.parton@imb.uq.edu

Key Words: Caveolin-1, prostate cancer, exosome, endosome, Cavin1, autophagy, autophagosome.

(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.19.999441; this version posted March 20, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint

## ABSTRACT

Caveolin-1  (Cav1)  expression  and  secretion  is  associated  with  prostate  cancer  (PCa)  disease progression but the mechanisms underpinning Cav1 release remain poorly understood. Numerous studies  have  shown Cav1 can be secreted within exosome-like vesicles, but antibody-mediated neutralization can mitigate PCa progression; this is suggestive of an inverted (non-exosomal) Cav1 topology. Here we show that Cav1 can be secreted from specific PCa types in an inverted vesicleassociated form consistent with the features of bioactive Cav1 secretion. Characterization of the isolated vesicles by electron microscopy, single molecule fluorescent microscopy and proteomics reveals they represent a novel class of exosomes ~40 nm in diameter containing ~50-60 copies of Cav1 and strikingly, are released via a non-canonical secretory autophagy pathway. This study provides  novel  insights  into  a  mechanism  whereby  Cav1  translocates  from  a  normal  plasma membrane distribution to an inverted secreted form implicated in PCa disease progression.

## INTRODUCTION

Caveolae are a characteristic feature of the plasma membrane (PM) of many mammalian cell types 1 . Caveolin-1 (Cav1) is the major non-muscle isoform of the caveolin family and is essential for caveola formation 2 .  Cav1 is synthesised at the endoplasmic reticulum and exported through the Golgi complex to form caveolae at the cell surface 3 . PM-associated caveolae can be internalised and fuse with early endosomes before recycling back to the surface without disassembly 4,  5 .  A peripheral membrane protein, termed Cavin1 or Polymerase Transcript Release Factor (PTRF) is also required to stabilise caveolae on the PM 6, 7 . The loss of Cavin1 results in a switch from a largely stable pool of Cav1 at the PM to a rapidly internalised pool with increased endocytic recycling 6, 8, 9 . It has been postulated that the ratio of Cav1 expression to Cavin1 expression is a key regulator of Cav1 dynamics as this ratio is tightly regulated in different cell types and tissues 8 .

Cav1 over-expression correlates with advanced and metastatic prostate cancer (PCa) 10-12 in  the absence of Cavin1 expression 11 . A loss of Cav1 expression in the TRAMP transgenic mouse PCa model resulted in a dramatic reduction in PCa growth and metastasis 13 . Moreover, PCa-associated Cav1 exists in dynamic non-caveolar membrane domains as observed in the aggressive PC3 cell line,  which expresses Cav1 but not Cavin1 6 .  Cavin1 expression is sufficient to attenuate Cav1associated  PCa  disease  progression  in  an  orthotopic  xenograft  mouse  model 11 .  In  addition  to reducing anchorage-independent growth and migration, Cavin1 expression altered the secretion of Cav1 14, 15 as well as the tumour microenvironment 16 .

Cav1 is a potential paracrine factor modulated by Cavin1 expression. PCa cell-secreted Cav1 has been shown to enhance cancer cell survival, to stimulate PCa cell proliferation 17 , and to have proangiogenic  effects 18 .  The  effect  of  Cav1  is  clearly  mediated  by  secreted  caveolin  as  it  can  be recapitulated  with  medium  from  LNCaP  cells  heterologously  expressing  Cav1 19 ,  and  can  be inhibited by antibodies to Cav1 in cultured cell systems and mouse models 12, 17 . Moreover, serum Cav1  is  elevated  in  PCa  patients  compared  with  control  men  or  men  with  benign  prostatic hyperplasia 20 ,  and  is  a  potential  prognostic  marker  for  PCa  recurrence  after  prostatectomy 21 . Elucidating  the  various  mechanism(s)  by  which  caveolin  is  secreted  is  therefore  critical  to understand Cav1's function in PCa progression.

Considerable evidence from the literature shows that Cav1 can associate with exosomes 14, 19, 22, 23 and is highly secreted within exosomes derived from PC3 cells 14, 24, 25 . Exosomes are formed in the endocytic pathway and comprise a subset of intralumenal vesicles (ILVs) within the multivesicular bodies (MVBs) 26 . The ~100-200 nm vesicles are released from the cell when MVBs fuse with the cell  surface 27 .  As  the  exosome  is  a  membrane-bound  vesicle,  integral  membrane  proteins  are released from the cell within a membrane bilayer in an energetically favourable lipid environment 28 . However, an exosome release model for secretion of bioactive caveolin is consistent with some, but not all, published data. First, exosomes are typically sedimented from the medium at 100,000 x g ,  however  several  studies  have  reported  that  secreted  Cav1  is  not  pelleted  under  these conditions 12,  19 .  Second,  antibodies  against  caveolin  have  been  shown  to  inhibit  the  effect  of secreted caveolin 12, 17, 19 : a released exosome would contain all exposed caveolin epitopes masked within the lumen of the vesicle, which is topologically equivalent to the cytoplasm. Third, caveolin has been demonstrated to be secreted through other non-classical means in numerous studies via an undefined mechanism 29, 30 .

In  this  study  we  have  used  a  variety  of  biochemical  assays  and  microscopy-based  imaging techniques to interrogate the route of caveolin release from prostate cancer cell lines. We confirm Cav1 is released within conventional exosomes from PC3 cells but is secreted from LNCaP cells with an inverted topology. We demonstrate that Cavin1 expression is a critical regulator of Cav1 release, demonstrate intracellular Ca 2+ levels affect secretion, and isolate and characterise the novel secreted vesicles from LNCaP cells; here termed C-exosomes (Caveolin-exosomes). We show by EM that C-exosomes are regular spherical structures of ~40 nm in diameter that are highly enriched in Cav1 as demonstrated by tandem mass spectrometry proteomics analysis. Using single molecule fluorescence spectroscopy, we reveal that each C-exosome released from LNCaP cells consists of

(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.19.999441; this version posted March 20, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint

50-60 caveolin molecules. Finally, we provide direct evidence that the release of C-exosomes from LNCaP cells stems from a non-classical autophagy-based mechanism. These observations identify a non-conventional pathway for the release of a novel antibody-accessible Cav1 vesicle which have important implications for prostate cancer.

## RESULTS

Cav1 is secreted in an antibody-accessible form from LNCaP cells

Antibody-mediated  neutralization  of  Cav1  has  been  demonstrated  to  inhibit  PCa  disease progression 12,  17 .  This  is  inconsistent  with  a  conventional  exosomal  release  as  Cav1  epitopes secreted within exosomes should be concealed within the lumen of the vesicle and inaccessible for antibody neutralization. To date Cav1 secretion has been most extensively studied in PC3 cells where  Cav1  is  known  to  co-fractionate  with  protein  markers  of  conventional  exosomes 14,  25 . Intriguingly,  LNCaP  cells  expressing  Cav1  have  been  shown  to  recapitulate  the  action  of  a bioactive form of Cav1 implicated in prostate cancer progression 19 but it is currently unknown how Cav1  secretion  occurs  and  what  topology  Cav1  adopts  when  released  from  these  cells.  To interrogate the pathway of release we first analysed the secretion of Cav1 from both PCa cell lines.

LNCaPs have variable levels of endogenous Cav1 expression; high passage LNCaP cells  have been shown to have elevated expression and secretion of Cav1, yet low passage LNCaPs in the same  study  were  shown  to  have  no  endogenous  Cav1  expression 12 .  Therefore,  to  evaluate  the pathway of Cav1 secretion from LNCaP cells we have made use of a transient overexpression system to reliably study caveolin secretion as has been used in other studies in vitro and in vivo 11, 19 . As PC3 cells express and secrete endogenous Cav1 at reliably high levels we have performed the subsequent comparisons between untransfected PC3s and LNCaP cells transiently expressing Cav1.

Secreted vesicles were isolated from conditioned media by sequential centrifugations at 1,500 rpm for 5 min, 4,500 rpm for 20 min, and 14,000 x g for 35 min to remove cellular debris, and then ultracentrifugation at 100,000 x g for 60 min. To confirm that this purification method resulted in a  sufficiently  clean  preparation of exosomes, we first analysed secreted vesicles from PC3 cell conditioned  media  by  western  blot  analysis.  The  pelleted  fraction  (P100)  from  PC3  cells demonstrated  abundant  Cav1  protein  (Fig.  1A)  without  contamination  from  other  cellular compartments. Western blotting confirmed that protein markers of the Golgi complex, the nucleus, the cytoplasm and endosomes were absent (Fig. 1A), however, β-actin, α-tubulin, Flot1 and Cav1

(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.19.999441; this version posted March 20, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint

(Fig.  1A)  were all  present  as  previously  described  for  PC3  cell  exosome  perparations 14,  25,  31-33 . These data demonstrate this method is sufficient for generating a pure preparation of  PCa cell exosomes.

As previous studies have demonstrated differences between the biophysical properties of exosomes isolated from PC3 cells compared to LNCaP cells we next assayed the relative abundance of Cav1 secreted into the P100 and S100 fractions between these two cell lines. Cav1 and CD63 (a protein marker of multivesicular bodies and exosomes) levels were analysed by western blot. In PC3 cells the amount of Cav1 released was proportionally small in the P100 fraction compared to the total cellular level of expressed protein only representing 0.03% of total cellular levels; no Cav1 protein was detected in the S100 fraction (Fig. 1B). In contrast, LNCaP cells demonstrated a different profile for Cav1 secretion with a larger proportion of total Cav1 protein present in the released fractions; 1.55% of total cellular Cav1 was in the P100 fraction and 1.13% released into the S100 fraction (Fig. 1C). Given the difference in secretion profiles between released Cav1 from PC3 cells and LNCaP cells, we next dissected the biochemical properties of secreted Cav1 from each cell line in greater detail using sucrose gradient fractionation. Cav1 in the P100 fraction derived from PC3 cells  demonstrated an abundance of Cav1 protein in higher density fractions with peak protein concentration (between steps 7 to 11). Moreover, Cav1 secreted from PC3 cells co-fractionated with protein markers of exosomes and peak Cav1 levels closely correlated with peak exosomal morphology  by  electron  microscopy  (EM)  (Fig.  1D  and  E).  In  contrast,  sucrose  gradient centrifugation demonstrated a significantly different fractionation profile for Cav1 isolated from LNCaP cells. Cav1 demonstrated wide-ranging densities from (steps 4 to 11) in the P100 fraction with a constrained low-density peak observed between steps 4 to 7 in the S100 fraction (Figure 1F). A time course of Cav1 release from PC3 cells demonstrated the presence of serum did not impact upon  the  dynamics  of  Cav1  secretion  into  the  media  (Fig.  S1)  which  indicates  that  PC3  cell secretion of Cav1 does not originate from Cav1-positive exosomes present in the serum. These data confirm that Cav1 present in the S100 fraction from conditioned media isolated from LNCaP cells is biochemically distinct from the exosomal form isolated from PC3 cells.

To determine if the Cav1 particle secreted from LNCaP cells resembles the bioactive form of Cav1 in prostate cancer, we analysed the topology of the protein using immunoprecipitation. Cav1 was successfully immunoisolated from the S100 fraction from LNCaP cells using a polyclonal antibody against the Cav1 N-terminus (Fig. 2A). The pulldown of Cav1 from the S100 fraction was not dependent on pre-treatment with Triton-X100 (TX100), indicating that Cav1 is present in the S100

(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.19.999441; this version posted March 20, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint fraction in an exposed form (Fig. 2A). To determine the topographic organisation of Cav1 released from these cells, we performed pulldown analyses with GFP-trap using an N-terminal YFP-Cav1 construct  and  a  C-terminal  Cav1-GFP construct. Both the N- and C-termini were available for pulldown by GFP-trap (Fig. 2B). To validate the orientation of Cav isolated from PC3 cells we immunoisolated exosomes from the media (after the 14,000 x g centrifugation step) using antiCD63 and polyclonal  anti-Cav1  antibodies.  Cav1  was  detected  in  immuno-precipitated  CD63positive  exosomes  (Fig.  2C).  Strikingly,  the  co-immunoprecipitation  of  Cav1  with  CD63  was dependent on an intact membrane, as detergent treatment resulted in the loss of Cav1 pulldown by the anti-CD63 antibody (Fig. 2C). We next performed immunoprecipitation of the P100 fraction using an antibody against the N-terminus of Cav1. We could not pull-down Cav1 from the P100 fraction in the absence of detergent treatment but, in the presence of β-octylglucoside (βoG) and TX100,  Cav1  was  successfully  immunoisolated  (Fig.  2D).  This  strongly  argues  Cav1  is  not available on the external leaflet of the exosome for antibody binding when secreted from PC3 cells but is secreted in an antibody-accessible form in the S100 fraction from LNCaP cells. To further confirm  these  results  we  performed  protease  protection  assays  against  the  S100  fraction  from LNCaP cells and the P100 fraction from PC3 cells. In PC3 cells, Cav1 was partially digested only when  detergent-treated,  (Fig.  S2A)  consistent  with  previous  observations 34 .  In  contrast,  the recognition epitope of Cav1 was completely absent after incubation with ProK in the absence of detergent treatment in LNCaP S100 preparations (Fig. S2B). The complete loss of the recognition epitope after ProK treatment suggests the N-terminus of Cav1 may adopt an as yet undescribed topology in the membrane.

Taken together these data suggest that Cav1 is released from LNCaP cells in an atypical form, which  we  now  term  C-exosomes  (Caveolin1-exosomes),  that  biophysically  and  topologically resemble  the  pro-angiogenic  particles  proposed  to  have  autocrine  and  paracrine  functions  in prostate cancer models 12, 19-21, 35 .

## Cavin1 expression and caveolae formation inhibit the secretion of Cav1 from PCa cells

The  conventional  release  of  exosomes  from  the  cell  involves  the  sorting  of  proteins  from  the endosome  into  ILVs,  the  formation,  fission  and  accumulation  of  ILVs  within  MVBs,  and  the subsequent fusion of MVBs with the PM. To gain a more detailed understanding of the pathway underpinning  Cav1  release  in  LNCaP  cells,  we  analyzed  the  role  of  Ca 2+ -mediated  membrane fusion. The calcium ionophore, ionomycin, was utilised to determine how intracellular Ca 2+ levels affected Cav1 secretion 36 .  LNCaP cells secreted more Cav1 into the S100 fraction when treated

(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.19.999441; this version posted March 20, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint with ionomycin in a time-dependent manner (Fig. 3A and B). Increased Cav1 levels were observed after only 10 minutes of treatment. A similar dependence on Ca 2+ -mediated membrane fusion was also observed in PC3 cells (Fig. S3A and B).

In  view  of  the  antibody-accessible  topology  of  Cav1  released  from  LNCaP  cells,  we  next interrogated the mechanistic requirements underlying the release of this novel form. To dissect the requirements for the release of Cav1 we analysed the importance of Cavin1 expression as Cavin1 is structurally required for caveolar biogenesis/stability 6 , regulates Cav1 internalisation 9 and is not expressed in LNCaP or PC3 cells 11, 16 .    LNCaP cells were transiently transfected with the GFPRab5Q79L  point  mutant,  which  is  a  GTPase-deficient  Rab5  that  stimulates  early  endosome fusion 37 . This point mutant results in the formation of larger endosomes that are readily resolvable by confocal fluorescence microscopy. Using this assay, we performed a quantitative assessment of the relative internalized pool of Cav1 with and without Cavin1-Flag co-expression. The expression of Cavin1 significantly inhibited the internalisation of Cav1 in LNCaP cells (Fig. 3C, D and E) and PC3 cells (Fig S3C, D and E). These data suggest that expression of Cavin1-mediated sequestration of Cav1 at the PM inhibits intracellular accumulation.

We further tested if Cavin1 expression was sufficient to reduce the release of Cav1. We generated stable LNCaP cell lines expressing Cavin1-GFP or GFP alone with transient expression of Cav1cherry. Cavin1-GFP expression (compared to GFP alone) resulted in a dramatic reduction in the release of Cav1-cherry in both the S100 (73% ± 9) and P100 (47% ± 15) fractions (n = 4; quantified in Fig. 3F) suggesting that Cavin1 expression sequesters Cav1 within caveolae at the PM resulting in  reduced  secretion  into  the  extracellular  space.  A  similar  reduction  in  Cav1  secretion  was observed upon Cavin1 expression in PC3 cells by western blot analysis (Fig. S3F). Taken together these data indicate that intracellular Ca 2+ levels affect caveolin release, and that Cav1 secretion is negatively regulated by Cavin1 expression.

## Molecular and ultrastructural analysis of Cav1 released from LNCaP cells

Our results have demonstrated an N-terminal YFP-tag is sufficient to immuno-isolate Cav1 from the S100 fraction of LNCaP cells. We used this observation to gain insights into the molecular composition  and  structure  of  C-exosomes  to  determine  the  origin  of  their  release.  Initial experiments successfully used GFP-trap beads to isolate YFP-Cav1 from S100 fraction of LNCaP cells, however, the yields were low. We went on to optimise purification with MBP-tagged GFPtrap, purified on amylose resin column, eluted with maltose buffer, and then concentrated in 100kD

cut-off centricon filters. Proteomic analysis was performed on three biological replicates of YFPCav1 particles purified from LNCaP conditioned media, compared to YFP expression alone. A total of 453 proteins were identified across the 6 samples (Table S1), most not consistently detected across  replicates, indicative of non-specific  interactions.  Strikingly,  only  2  proteins  were significantly  different  (p&lt;0.05)  between  YFP-Cav1  and  YFP  groups  across  the  3  replicates: Caveolin-1,  as  expected,  and  Synaptogyrin-2.  This  protein  has  previously  been  implicated  in endocytic  and  synaptic  vesicle  formation 38,  39 .  Importantly,  the  lack  of  commonly  observed exosomal  proteins  such  as  Flotillin-1,  Flotillin-2,  or  TSG101  further  confirms  that  YFP-Cav1 particles are not released as conventional exosomes.

We further characterized the released particles by EM. YFP-Cav1 was isolated from conditioned media using method (ii) as this protocol yielded the largest amount of pure material. The particles (still with MBP tagged GFP-trap attached) were spherical in structure, uniform in diameter and morphology (Fig. 4A) measuring ~36 nm from inner membrane to inner membrane (the  outer diameter was not measured because it includes the MBP-GFP-trap bound to YFP-Cav1); smaller than conventional exosomes (~100-200 nm) and plasma membrane caveolae (50 to 80 nm). To obtain  a  quantitative  understanding  of  the  number  of  Cav1  proteins  per  C-exosome  we  used fluorescence  correlation  spectroscopy  (FCS) 40 .  YFP-Cav1  positive  particles  were  isolated  and analysed under the same conditions as YFP alone (as a calibration factor). 100 curves of 10s were acquired for YFP and the diffusion time was plotted (Fig. 4B); the data show a narrow distribution of residence times centred at 95 μsec. YFP-Cav1 however demonstrated a broader distribution of residence times ~800 μsec (Fig. 4C) approximately 7.5 times the size of the YFP monomer. Using these values, an approximation of particle size can be gained by comparison with the size of YFP (~5.5 nm) at ~40-45 nm, close to the measured diameter from negative staining EM.

Analysis of the predicted size distribution demonstrates the YFP-Cav1 particles released by LNCaP cells are highly defined in size and number when compared to random aggregation, which possesses broader distribution and diffusion values (&gt; 10,000 μsec) 40 . We then used single molecule counting to estimate the number of proteins contained in the YFP-Cav1 particles 41 . Plotting the brightness of  bursts  against  the  number  of  bursts  of  that  brightness,  released  YFP-Cav1  showed  a  large maximal amplitude of about 4,500 photons (Fig. 4D). As a single YFP protein can generate a maximum of 90 photons under the same conditions, this yields a relative value of approximately 50 to 60 units YFP-Cav1 proteins per C-exosome. These data demonstrate YFP-Cav1 is released from LNCaP cells as a regular, spherical vesicle comprising 50-60 proteins per particle in a form

(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.19.999441; this version posted March 20, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint that is different from conventional exosomes and caveolae.

To further characterise Cav1 secreted from LNCaP cells, we performed EM with APEX-GBP; a modular method for the high-resolution detection of subcellular protein distributions 42 . APEX-GBP is an expression vector with a modified soybean ascorbate peroxidase tag 43 linked to a high affinity GFP/YFP-binding  peptide 44 .  The  APEX-tag  generates  an  osmiophillic  polymer  when  the diaminobenzoic acid (DAB) reaction is performed in the presence of H2O2; this insoluble polymer is contrasted by osmium tetroxide post-fixation which allows for the detection of any GFP- or YFPtagged protein to an approximate 10 nm resolution 42 . To confirm the expression of YFP-Cav1 and APEX-GBP  is  non-disrupting,  we  first  expressed  these  constructs  in  the  non-PCa  line,  baby hamster kidney (BHK) cells, which endogenously express Cavin1. The co-transfection of YFPCav1 with APEX-GBP resulted in a normal Cav1 distribution with enriched electron density at the PM, specifically at caveolae with minimal electron density at intracellular structures (Fig. 4E). We next examined the expression of YFP alone or YFP-Cav1 with APEX-GBP in LNCaP cells. YFP co-transfection  with  APEX-GBP  resulted  in  soluble/cytoplasmic  electron  density  with  no enrichment at membrane compartments (Fig. 4F). YFP-Cav1 co-expression with APEX-GBP in LNCaP  cells  resulted  a  broad  distribution  of  subcellular  localisations  with  Cav1  occasionally detected at flat PM (red arrow) and at endosomes (black arrowheads). Intriguingly, YFP-Cav1 was highly abundant at small (~31±8 nm internal diameter) intracellular vesicular structures of regular size and shape that were completely disconnected from the PM and other membrane-bound cellular compartments.  The  electron density  generated  by  the  APEX-tag  and  the  DAB  reaction demonstrated that the topology of YFP-Cav1 in these small particles was consistent with exposure on the cytoplasmic face of these vesicles (Fig. 4G-I) and were morphologically similar in size and shape to those imaged by negative staining.

The distribution of YFP-Cav1 was markedly different in PC3 cells. Cav1 was abundant on flat PM but  predominantly decorated the cytoplasmic face of endosomal compartments (Fig. 5B: white arrows) and with striking density inside intraluminal vesicles accumulating within endosomes (Fig. 5B, C and E: white arrowheads). Furthermore, profiles consistent with endosomes fusing with the PM to release YFP-Cav1:APEX-GBP-rich vesicles were regularly observed (Fig. 5E) as well as exosomes positive for YFP-Cav1 on the external surface of PC3 cells (Fig. 5D and E).

In view of these observations we speculated that Cav1 may drive the formation of 30-40 nm Cexosomes  in  the  LNCaP  cytoplasm  through  the  protein's  ability  to  sculpt  membranes 45 .  We

interrogated this model by comparing secretion of WT Cav1 with secretion of the Cav1S80E point mutant, which inhibits Cav1 membrane sculpting by reducing membrane affinity in a bacterial system 34, 45 and cholesterol binding in a mammalian system 46 . The expression of the S80A point mutant,  which  increases  cholesterol  affinity 46 and  is  non-disrupting  in  the  bacterial  system 45 , resulted in a modest increase in the release of Cav1S80A compared to the release of WT Cav1 (Fig. 6A and B). However, the expression of the Cav1S80E point mutant resulted in a two-fold reduction in released Cav1 (Fig. 6A and C). Confocal microscopy demonstrated that the S80E mutant was exclusively  localised  to  the  Golgi  complex  (as  determined  by  co-localisation  with  GM130), whereas the WT construct was only partially co-localised with this organelle marker (Fig. 6D and E). WT Cav1 was efficiently sorted into endosomes, as determined by co-transfection with GFPRab5Q79L, but Cav1S80E was unable to accumulate within Rab5Q79L-positive compartments. Additionally, the expression of Cavin1 did not result in the redistribution of Cav1S80E to the cell surface unlike the WT Cav1 (Fig. 6F-I). These data suggest that cholesterol binding is essential for the  trafficking  of  Cav1  out  of  the  Golgi  complex  for  secretion  into  the  extracellular  space.  To confirm this, we utilised APEX-GBP to examine the distribution of Cav1S80E at the EM level. The S80A mutant efficiently generated the cytoplasmically-localised ~35 nm vesicles (Fig. 6J), was lowly abundant at cell surface and on endosomes similar to the WT Cav1 (Fig. 4G-I).  Cav1S80E however,  was  unable  to  efficiently  generate  these  vesicles  and  remained  almost  completely associated with the Golgi complex (Fig. 6K).

Taken together, the characterisation of C-exosomes released by LNCaP cells indicate the particles isolated  from  the  S100  fraction  (i)  are  not  caveolae  released  from  lysed  cells,  (ii)  are  not conventional exosomes equivalent to Cav1 released by PC3 cells, (iii) have an inverted topology consistent with the bioactive form of Cav1 involved in prostate cancer, and (iv) mutations in Cav1 that decrease membrane sculpting cause retention in the Golgi complex and inhibit Cav1 secretion.

## Autophagy is critical for the release of Cav1 from LNCaP cells

Autophagy has been previously implicated in the release of proteins through atypical pathways 47-51 and  several  studies  have  linked  degradation  of  Cav1  to  autophagy 52-55 .  Our  EM  studies demonstrated abundant small vesicles positive for Cav1 in the cytoplasm of expressing cells. We hypothesised these vesicles may be secreted after engulfment by the maturing autophagosome and then released from the cell 47-51 .  Therefore, we first performed immunofluorescence and labelled endogenous LC3B, a marker of autophagosomes 56 , in YFP-Cav1 expressing LNCaP cells. YFPCav1 showed co-localisation with LC3B-positive puncta (Fig. 7A), suggesting the sorting of Cav1

(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.19.999441; this version posted March 20, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint into the autophagosomes in LNCaP cells.

Next, we utilised small interfering RNA directed against autophagy related (ATG) proteins ATG5, ATG9A and ATG12 that function at different stages of autophagy to investigate a potential role in Cav1 clearance. ATG9A is an upstream autophagic factor that is responsible for the delivery of the lipids  and  proteins  required  for  autophagosome  formation 57,  58 ,  while  ATG5  and  ATG12  play critical  roles  in  a  later  stage  of  autophagy  through  forming  a  heterodimer  that  promotes autophagosome elongation 59 and binds directly to Cav1 53 . As indicated by LC3B puncta (Fig. 7B), serum starvation  for  6  hours  effectively  induced  autophagosome  accumulation.  Knockdown  of ATG5, ATG9A or ATG12 inhibited autophagosome formation under both nutrient (Fig 7B; upper panel)  and  serum  starved  (Fig  7B;  lower  panel)  conditions.  The  modification  of  the  LC3B cytoplasmic form (LC3B-I) to its membrane-bound form (LC3B-II) is essential for autophagosome maturation 56 . Therefore, LC3B lipidation was further detected to assess the autophagic levels. A two-fold increase in LC3B II/I ratio was observed in controls after a 6-hour serum starvation (Fig. 7D, n=3). Cells transfected with siRNAs against selected ATG proteins exhibited decreased LC3BII/I ratios (Fig.7D), suggesting reduced autophagic levels upon serum starvation in those cells. The interruption of autophagy by knockdown of ATG proteins resulted in a dramatic increase in cellular YFP fluorescence (Fig. 7C) and significant upregulation of YFP-Cav1 protein levels in the whole cell lysates (WCL) from serum starved LNCaP cells (Fig. 7D and E). In addition, the treatment of an autophagy inhibitor, 3-methyladenine (3MA), was included as a positive control and exhibited the most significant effect on rescuing cellular YFP-Cav1 expression levels (3.21 fold) following serum starvation (Fig. 7C-E). These data demonstrate that autophagy is essential for the clearance Cav1 from LNCaP cells.

Next, we investigated the effect of autophagy on the release of Cav1 into the extracellular space. YFP-Cav1 expressing LNCaP cells transfected with siRNAs targeting ATG proteins or treated with 5 mM 3MA were incubated in serum free media for 6 hours to stimulate autophagy and the S100 fractions were then isolated. Western blot assays together with densitometry analysis revealed a significant upregulation (9.12 fold) of YFP-Cav1 secretion into the S100 fraction from control cells cultured in serum free medium for 6 hours (Fig. 7D and F). Autophagy inhibition by knockdowns of selected ATG proteins or 3MA treatment caused marked reduction in YFP-Cav1 secretion from starved LNCaP cells (Fig. 7D). Quantification showed significant downregulation in YFP-Cav1 levels in the S100 fractions of media isolated from ATG9A (-0.64 fold) or ATG12 (-0.73 fold) depleted cells, as well as 3MA treated cells (-0.93 fold), compared to controls (Fig. 7F). Despite no

(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.19.999441; this version posted March 20, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint significance, knockdown of ATG5 led to a decrease of 49% of YFP-Cav1 secretion into the S100 fraction compared to controls (Fig. 7F).

Taken together, the results argue that autophagy is the major pathway for Cav1 secretion in LNCaP cells. We propose that Cav1-induced vesicles are engulfed by autophagosomes and some of this content is released into the extracellular space as C-exosomes (Schematically depicted in Fig. 8).

## DISCUSSION

Serum Cav1 detection in PCa correlates with cancer stage 60 ,  cancer grade 61 ,  angiogenesis 18 ,  and poor patient outcomes 21, 62 . However, the mechanism that underlies this secretion has, to date, been poorly  understood.  Utilizing  a  variety  of  biochemical,  EM  and  fluorescence  microscopy-based techniques we have characterised the release of Cav1 from LNCaP cells and determined that Cav1 is released in a novel form through an autophagy-based pathway.

Advanced  PCa  possess  an  unconventional  expression  profile  with  high  levels  of  Cav1  in  the absence of Cavin1 expression 6, 11 . This is particularly interesting as loss of Cavin1 protein in cells and animals, and loss of function mutations in Cavin1 in human patients, consistently results in a significant reduction  in caveolin  protein levels 6, 7, 63, 64 .  These  observations  suggest  that understanding how PCa cells retain Cav1 expression for secretion into the extracellular space is critical  for  understanding  Cav1's  role  in  PCa.  Clearly,  Cav1  can  be  released  within  exosomes through a conventional pathway; this is the predominant pathway for Cav1 release from PC3 cells. However,  we  now  show  that  Cav1  is  released  from  LNCaP  cells  with  the  opposite  topology (summarized in Fig. 8). This is backed up by numerous observations from the literature that show bioactive Cav1-positive vesicles are released in an LNCaP-like topology with a biochemical profile that  is  distinct  from  conventional  exosomes;  Cav1  particles  can  be  neutralised  by  anti-Cav1 antibodies which in turn can inhibit disease progression in models of PCa 12, 17 . These observations closely align with our characterization of the topology Cav1 released by LNCaP cells and suggest the  orientation  of  Cav1  in  the  membrane  may  be  a  critical  factor  in  disease  progression  and bioactivity.

Cav1 is oriented in the cell such that the N- and C-termini face the cytoplasm with no portion of the protein exposed to the extracellular milieu 65 . Our studies have confirmed that despite opposing secreted  topologies,  both  PC3  cells  and  LNCaP  cells  possess  Cav1  that  exclusively  faces  the cytoplasm.  How  then  can  Cav1  be  released  from  LNCaP  cells  with  both  cytoplasmic  termini

(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.19.999441; this version posted March 20, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint exposed?  One  possibility  is  that  LNCaP  particles  are  a  consequence  of  lysed  cells  releasing caveolae into the media; our observations however argue against this possibility. First, LNCaP cells possess little to no caveolae in the absence of Cavin1 expression (see reference 11 and Fig 4G). Second, the release of Cav1 appears to be a regulated pathway as ionomycin treatment stimulated secretion and 3MA treatment inhibited release and critically these treatments did not correlate with large changes to LDH levels in the media. Third, the biophysical density of Cav1 secreted from LNCaP cells is dissimilar to the density of caveolae but does closely correlate with Cav1 released in other non-caveola forms 19, 66 . Fourth, the number of caveolin proteins per C-exosome does not align with the number of caveolin proteins per caveolae 5 . Finally, the vesicles released from LNCaP cells in the S100 fraction are approximately half the diameter of caveolae isolated from the PM 67 . Our data argue that precursor C-exosomes can be engulfed and released into the extracellular space in  an  autophagy-  and  Cavin1-dependent  process.  Loss  of  Cavin1  expression  could  further exacerbate this process as by increasing cellular autophagy 64 .  Autophagy-mediated secretion of Cav1 was specifically observed in LNCaP cells and could be a result of their stronger autophagic responses compared to other PCa cells including DU145 and PC3 cells 68 .

Autophagosomes  form  in  the  cytoplasm  of  cells  and  function  primarily  in  the  degradation  of cellular  proteins  and  organelles  by  the  engulfment  of  unwanted  cellular  machinery  within  the maturing phagophore. Several autophagy-based pathways have been characterised to function in the  non-canonical  regulated  release  of  proteins,  which  demonstrate  a  subversion  of  protein degradation for secretion into the extracellular space 47-51 . Cav1 degradation has been linked with autophagy 52 as several studies have characterised specific interactions between Cav1 and known ATG family regulators 53, 54 . In agreement with these observations we demonstrated that inhibition of autophagy by siRNA knockdown of selected ATG proteins significantly increased cellular Cav1 levels following serum starvation for 6 hours (Fig. 7C-E). Additionally, treatment of cells with 3MA, a specific inhibitor of autophagosome maturation, resulted in a 3.2-fold increase in cellular Cav1  protein  within  treated  cells  following  a  6-hour  serum  starvation  (Fig.  7C-E).  This  was concurrent with a reduction in the release of Cav1 into the extracellular space (Fig. 7D and F). This model is entirely consistent with our observations and with the finding that even Cav1 tagged with a large GFP/YFP moiety is still efficiently released from cells.

The origin of the curvature of the particles released from LNCaP cells remains unknown. It is likely that the expression of caveolin itself is involved in sculpting the membrane to generate the released C-exosomes. We observed that Cav1 was the most abundant protein in C-exosomes based on our

(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.19.999441; this version posted March 20, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint mass spectrometry analyses. In addition, we demonstrated that the S80E point mutant of Cav1, which  disrupts  caveola  formation  in  mammalian  cells  and  in  a  model  prokaryotic  system 34,  69 potently  inhibited  secretion  (Fig.  6).  Moreover,  this  mutant  was  unable  to  efficiently  form  Cexosome precursors in the cytoplasm as judged by EM. The lipidic environment may also be a critical determinant for the formation of these vesicles in LNCaP cells. The S80A point mutant, which is known to increase cholesterol association 46 , resulted in increased Cav1 secretion compared to  WT levels. Similarly, the S80E mutant which reduces cholesterol association 46 inhibited  the release of Cav1. Previous studies have shown that alterations to cellular cholesterol levels perturb the  secretion  of  Cav1  from  prostate  cancer  cells 24 and  over-expression  of  Apolipoprotein  A-I preferentially  induced  the  translocation  of  Cav1  and  cholesterol  onto  small  particles  in  the cytoplasm of rat astrocytes 66 . Other studies have suggested similarities between the properties of Cav1 particles released from LNCaP cells and high-density lipoprotein particles 19 . This suggests that  cholesterol  trafficking  and  Cav1  expression  are  tightly  linked  and  cellular  perturbation  of cholesterol distribution may impact upon Cav1 secretion. In agreement with this, other studies have shown that the induction of Cavin1 expression in PCa cells resulted in widespread changes in the cellular  distribution  of  cholesterol  and  correlated  with  reduced  Cav1  secretion 15 .  As  putative precursor C-exosomes were observed in the cytoplasm of LNCaP cells but not PC3 cells, and this correlated  with  secretion  of  Cav1  in  an  inverted  topology  from  LNCaP  cells,  this  suggests differences in the way that these cells respond to Cav1. In view of the correlation between secreted lipids, particularly those characteristic of exosomes, and poor prognosis in prostate cancer 70 , the role of the lipid environment in Cav1 release warrants further investigation.

A molecular understanding of the pathway regulating C-exosome formation and secretion is a vital step in understanding the release of this potentially clinically relevant form of caveolin implicated in prostate cancer progression 12, 18, 60-62 . Studies into other proteins that are similarly released via secretory autophagy have not only demonstrated the importance of ATG genes (described here) but also ESCRT machinery, SNARE proteins and a dependence on Golgi reassembly stacking protein (GRASP) for secretion into the extracellular space 49, 50 . A detailed analysis of the proteins required for the regulated release of non-caveolar Cav1 will provide critical insights into prostate cancer, and  potentially  novel  therapeutic  targets  to  intervene  for  the  inhibition  of  Cav1  secretion.  We demonstrated Cavin1 expression inhibits the release of Cav1 from two separate PCa model cell lines.  Other studies have shown the introduction of Cavin1 into a prostate cancer cell line in a tumour mouse model attenuated tumour progression 11 . This further suggests interesting avenues for therapeutic  intervention  and  demonstrates  the  importance  of  understanding  the  molecular

(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.19.999441; this version posted March 20, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint mechanisms underpinning Cav1 secretion.

## MATERIALS AND METHODS

Tissue culture Cells were grown in RPMI media (Gibco) supplemented with 10% Fetal Bovine serum and 2 mM L-glutamine. Cells were transfected using Lipofectamine 3000 (Invitrogen) as per the manufacturer's instruction. siRNA knockdowns were performed as follows. LNCaP cells were seeded onto 35 mm dishes and left for 48 hours. siRNA oligos (Ambion, Life Technologies; siRNA ID #s s18158 and s18160) were transfected with Lipofectamine 3000 twice; 2nd and 3rd days after seeding. Cells were then transfected with YFP-Cav1, left for an additional 24 hours, and serum starved overnight.

Antibodies and Reagents Protease Inhibitor Cocktail Set III was purchased from Calbiochem. Ionomycin and 3MA were purchased from Sigma-Aldrich and Proteinase K from Roche. Protein A-Sepharose and Protein G-Sepharose were purchased from Sigma-Alderich. LDH release analysis was  performed using  CytoTox96  Non-radioactive Cytotoxicity Assay  (Promega). Protein concentrations were assayed using BCA Protein Assay Kit (Quantum Scientific). Western blots were  developed  using  Supersignal  West  Dura  Extended  Duration  (Thermo  Fisher  Scientific). Released Cav1 was concentrated using Amicon Ultra-15 or 4, PLHK Ultracel-PL Membrane, 100 kDa (Merck). The following antibodies used in this study were raised in mouse unless otherwise stated; anti-Cav1 rabbit polyclonal antibody (BD Biosciences), rabbit anti-ATG5 (Sigma-Aldrich), rabbit  anti-ATG9A  (Abcam),  rabbit  anti-ATG12  (Abcam),  rabbit  anti-LC3B  (Cell  Signaling Technology), anti-CD63 monoclonal antibody (Developmental Studies Hybridoma Bank), antiMyc-tag (Genesearch), anti-GFP/YFP (Roche Diagnostics Australia), anti-Actin (Millipore), antiEEA1 (Becton Dickinson), anti-α-Tubulin (Sigma-Alderich) and anti-nucleoporin p62 raised in rabbit.  Rabbit  IgG  was  purchased  from  Sigma-Alderich.  Alexa-555  secondary  antibodies  were purchased from Molecular Probes (Eugene, OR).

Cav1 Isolation from conditioned media Cells were grown until they reached 80% confluency then washed with phosphate buffered saline (PBS). Cells were then incubated for 16 to 48 h in phenolfree RPMI before harvesting. Exosome purification was performed by successive centrifugation of conditioned media. Media was centrifuged at 1500 x rpm for 5 min then 4500 x rpm for 20 min. LDH assays were performed on the media at this stage of centrifugation. Media was subsequently spun again 14,000 x g for 35 min to ensure all cells and cellular debris were removed. High-speed ultracentifugation was then performed for P100/S100 fractionation. Media was spun at 100,000 x

g for  70  min  using  an  Optima  L-100XP  floor  standing  ultracentrifuge  (rotor  SW40Ti).  The supernatant was collected (S100 fraction) and concentrated using Amicon Ultra 100 kDa cut off concentrators. The pellet (P100 fraction) was resuspended in cold PBS, spun again at 100,000 x g for 70 min using an Optima MAX-XP bench-top ultracentrifuge (rotor TLS-55) and the pellet was collected. Whole cell lysates were analysed as follows. After conditioned media was removed, cells were washed in cold TNE buffer (100 mM NaCl, 0.1 mM EDTA and 50 mM Tris-HCl - pH 7.4) and  scraped  in  the  presence  of  1%  Triton-X100  and  protease  inhibitors.  BCA  assays  were performed to determine protein concentration and LDH assay to determine percentage of cell death.

Western Blots, Immunoprecipitation and sucrose gradients Protein samples were boiled in sample buffer, separated using sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE; 10 - 15% acrylamide) and transferred onto PVDF membrane (Millipore). For CD63 western blots, protein  samples  were  heated  to  60 o C for 10 min in a non-reducing buffer. Western blots were blocked in 3% bovine serum albumin in Tris Buffered Saline with Tween (TBST, pH 7.4 - 10mM Tris-HCl, 140mM NaCl and 0.1% v/v Tween 20), incubated with primary antibodies and HRPconjugated secondary antibodies and developed using chemiluminescence. Immunoprecipitation was performed as follows. Supernatant was collected after the 14,000 x g spin and incubated with an anti-Cav1 antibody, anti-CD63 antibody or Rabbit IgG (as a negative control) for 1 h at 4 o C in the presence or absence of 1% Triton-X100. 30 μL of Protein A-Sepharose beads were then added and incubated for 30 min. Beads were then centrifuged at 5000 x g for 2 min, and washed repeatedly in cold TNE buffer then processed as described above. Immunoprecipitation experiments using the P100 and S100 fraction were performed similarly but antibody incubation was performed after the second 100,000 x g spin.  For sucrose gradients; samples were spun for 16 h at 55,000 rpm using Optima MAX-XP bench-top ultracentrifuge (rotor TLS-55).

Proteinase K digestion - Purified P100 and S100 fractions were incubated with or without detergent at 4 o C for 30 min on a shaker prior to ProK digestion. Proteins were then incubated with 250 ng/mL of ProK at 37 o C for 30 min. Protease inhibitors were added after 30 min to stop the digestion.

Fluorescence  imaging  Coverslips  were  fixed  in  4%  paraformaldehyde  in  PBS  at  room temperature (RT) for 30 min, permeabilised with 0.1% saponin in PBS and quenched with 50 mM NH4Cl in PBS for 10 min. Coverslips were blocked in 0.2% bovine serum albumin and 0.2% fish skin gelatin in PBS for 10 min. Primary antibodies were incubated with coverslips for 1 h at RT, washed in PBS, and incubated with secondary fluorophores (Alexa555 anti-rabbit and Alexa660

(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.19.999441; this version posted March 20, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint anti-mouse) for 30 min. Coverslips were washed in PBS then water before mounting with Mowiol. Coverslips were imaged on a Zeiss LSM510 Confocal Microscope at 60X objective. Images for quantification were processed as follows. Individual GFP-Rab5Q79L endosomes were selected and the Red intensity was measured per endosome for multiple endosomes per cell for 30 to 50 cells per condition - repeated at least 3 times - such that an average red value can be compared between ± Cavin1. The area of GFP-Rab5Q79L endosomes was also compared to ensure no differences between the measured areas that existed between conditions.

Proteomics - Isolated YFP-Cav1 particles and control particles were separated by SDS-PAGE to 8 mm. Staining, in-gel trypsin digest and LC-MS/MS were performed as previously described 71 . Spectrum Mill and Scaffold software were used for database searching and statistical analysis using normalized total precursor intensity. Report from Scaffold analysis is available as Table S1.

Single molecule fluorescence spectroscopy. (i) Single molecule counting The experiments were performed as described previously 40 using a commercial Zeiss 710 confocal microscope equipped with the ConfoCor module. Briefly, the 488nm excitation laser is focussed in the solution using a 40x water-immersion objective, creating a very small observation volume (~1 fL). The fluorescence is collected, filtered using a 35-nm pinhole and recorded using single molecule counting detectors. The fluorescent Cav1 particles were diluted to picomolar concentrations to enable single particle detection. As described previously 40, 41 , the diffusion of the Cav1 particles into the focal volume is recorded as a bright burst of fluorescence. The amplitude of the burst can be used to quantify the maximal number of proteins in the particles, after calibration of the brightness of YFP monomers. (ii)  Fluorescence Correlation Spectroscopy -  FCS studies were performed exactly as described previously 40 .  For  these  experiments,  fluorescent  proteins  are  diluted  to  10-100  nanomolar concentration, so that a constant fluorescence intensity is detected. As fluorescent proteins enter or leave  the  detection  volume  constantly,  the  fluorescent  intensity  increases  or  decreases.    The fluctuations of intensity around the average value are computed, and the auto-correlation of the intensity over time leads to a calculation of the diffusion time, the typical time it takes for a protein to diffuse through the focal volume. Binding between proteins or the formation of aggregates can be detected as the physical size, and consequently, the diffusion time, will increase upon complex formation.

Negative Staining Electron Microscopy - Purified YFP-Cav1 particles were incubated for 10 min on glow-discharged carbon coated 1% formvar grids. Grids were washed 5 times in PBS, then 5

times in water and stained using 1% aqueous uranyl acetate. Purified exosomes from PC3 cells were adhered to formvar coated grids, washed repeatedly in PBS and water, then stained with 0.4% uranyl acetate in 2% methyl cellulose on ice for 10 min. Grids were imaged at 80 kV on a JEOL 1011 transmission electron microscope fitted with a Morada 4K X 4K Soft Imaging Camera at twofold binning (Olympus).

APEX-GBP Electron Microscopy - PC3, LNCaP and BHK cells were co-transfected with YFP or YFP-Cav1 and the APEX-GBP construct 42 . Cells were processed as described previously 42 . Briefly, cells were fixed in 2.5% glutaraldehyde, washed in 0.1M cacodylate buffer, and incubated with 3,3-diaminobenzoic acid (DAB - Sigma-Aldrich) in the presence of hydrogen peroxide for 30 min at room temperature. Cells were washed in cacodylate buffer, post-fixed in 1% osmium tetroxide for  2  min,  serially  dehydrated  in  ethanol  and  serially  infiltrated  with  LX112  resin.  Resin  was polymerised at 60 o C overnight and 60 nm ultrathin sections were cut on an Ultracut 6 (Leica) ultramicrotome and imaged as described above.

## ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

The authors would like to thank Prof. T Thompson for sharing reagents, Dr. Vikas Tillu and Ms Dorothy Loo for their technical assistance on this project, and Ye-Wheen Lim and Natasha Kaushik for proofreading the manuscript. The authors acknowledge the use of the Australian Microscopy and  Microanalysis  Research  Facility  at  the  Center  for  Microscopy  and  Microanalysis  at  The University  of  Queensland.  Fluorescence  Microscopy  was  performed  at  the  Australian  Cancer Research Foundation (ACRF)/Institute for Molecular Bioscience (IMB) Dynamic Imaging Facility for  Cancer  Biology.  Mass  Spectrometry  was  performed  at  The  University  of  Queensland Diamantina  Institute  Mass  Spectrometry  Facility.  This  work  was  supported  by  grants  and  a fellowship from the National Health and Medical Research Council of Australia (grant numbers APP1058565 and APP569542 to RGP; APP1045092 to RGP and NA; APP1037320 to RGP and KA;  APP1108859  to  YG  and  NA).  YG  and  MMH  were  supported  by  separate  ARC  Future Fellowships  (FT110100478  and  FT120100251)  and  FAM  with  an  ARC  Discovery  Project (DP170100125).  RDT  and  FAM  are  supported  by  separate  NHMRC  Research  Fellowships (APP1041929 and APP1060075).

## AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS

N.A. designed experiments, performed electron microscopy, biochemistry, and wrote and edited the manuscript. Y.W designed experiments, performed biochemistry and fluorescence microscopy,

and  wrote  and  edited  the  manuscript.  S.O.  designed  experiments,  performed  biochemistry  and fluorescence  microscopy  and  interpreted  data.  Y.G.  performed  the  FCS  and  single  molecule fluorescence spectroscopy. J.F. performed confocal microscopy. C.F. and J.R. provided technical expertise  for  electron  microscopy.  M.M.H.  designed  the  proteomic  analyses,  analysed  and interpreted  data  and  edited  the  manuscript.  F.A.M.,  K.A.  and  R.D.T.  interpreted  data.  R.G.P. designed experiments, interpreted data, edited the manuscript, and supervised the work. All authors reviewed the results and approved the final manuscript.

## CONFLICT OF INTEREST

The authors declare that they have no conflict of interest with the contents of this article.

## REFERENCES

1. Parton,  R.G.  &amp;  del  Pozo,  M.A.  Caveolae  as  plasma  membrane  sensors,  protectors  and organizers. Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol 14 , 98-112 (2013).
2. Park, D.S. et al. Caveolin-1/3 double-knockout mice are viable, but lack both muscle and non-muscle caveolae, and develop a severe cardiomyopathic phenotype. Am J Pathol 160 , 2207-2217 (2002).
3. Hayer,  A.,  Stoeber,  M.,  Bissig,  C.  &amp;  Helenius,  A.  Biogenesis  of  caveolae:  stepwise assembly of large caveolin and cavin complexes. Traffic 11 , 361-382 (2010).
4. Boucrot,  E.,  Howes,  M.T.,  Kirchhausen,  T.  &amp;  Parton,  R.G.  Redistribution  of  caveolae during mitosis. J Cell Sci 124 , 1965-1972 (2011).
5. Pelkmans, L. &amp; Zerial, M. Kinase-regulated quantal assemblies and kiss-and-run recycling of caveolae. Nature 436 , 128-133 (2005).
6. Hill,  M.M. et  al. PTRF-Cavin,  a  conserved  cytoplasmic  protein  required  for  caveola formation and function. Cell 132 , 113-124 (2008).
7. Liu, L. et al. Deletion of Cavin/PTRF causes global loss of caveolae, dyslipidemia, and glucose intolerance. Cell Metab 8 , 310-317 (2008).
8. Bastiani, M. et al. MURC/Cavin-4 and cavin family members form tissue-specific caveolar complexes. J Cell Biol 185 , 1259-1273 (2009).
9. Hayer,  A. et  al. Caveolin-1  is  ubiquitinated  and  targeted  to  intralumenal  vesicles  in endolysosomes for degradation. J Cell Biol 191 , 615-629 (2010).
10. Gumulec, J. et al. Caveolin-1 as a potential high-risk prostate cancer biomarker. Oncol Rep 27 , 831-841 (2012).
11. Moon,  H. et  al. PTRF/cavin-1  neutralizes  non-caveolar  caveolin-1  microdomains  in prostate cancer. Oncogene 33 , 3561-3570 (2014).
12. Tahir, S.A. et al. Secreted caveolin-1 stimulates cell survival/clonal growth and contributes to metastasis in androgen-insensitive prostate cancer. Cancer Res 61 , 3882-3885 (2001).
13. Williams, T.M. et al. Caveolin-1 promotes tumor progression in an autochthonous mouse model  of  prostate  cancer:  genetic  ablation  of  Cav-1  delays  advanced  prostate  tumor development in tramp mice. J Biol Chem 280 , 25134-25145 (2005).
14. Inder, K.L. et  al. Cavin-1/PTRF alters prostate cancer cell-derived extracellular vesicle content and internalization to attenuate extracellular vesicle-mediated osteoclastogenesis and osteoblast proliferation. J Extracell Vesicles 3 (2014).
15. Inder, K.L. et al. Expression of PTRF in PC-3 Cells modulates cholesterol dynamics and the  actin  cytoskeleton  impacting  secretion  pathways. Mol  Cell  Proteomics 11 ,  M111 012245 (2012).
16. Nassar, Z.D. et al. PTRF/Cavin-1 decreases prostate cancer angiogenesis and lymphangiogenesis. Oncotarget 4 , 1844-1855 (2013).
17. Watanabe, M. et al. Functional analysis of secreted caveolin-1 in mouse models of prostate cancer progression. Mol Cancer Res 7 , 1446-1455 (2009).
18. Yang, G. et al. Correlative evidence that prostate cancer cell-derived caveolin-1 mediates angiogenesis. Hum Pathol 38 , 1688-1695 (2007).
19. Bartz,  R. et  al. Caveolin-1  secreting  LNCaP  cells  induce  tumor  growth  of  caveolin-1 negative LNCaP cells in vivo. Int J Cancer 122 , 520-525 (2008).

|   20. | Tahir, S.A. et al. Development of an immunoassay for serum caveolin-1: a novel biomarker for prostate cancer. Clin Cancer Res 9 , 3653-3659 (2003).                                                                                                                               |
|-------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|    21 | Tahir, S.A. et al. Preoperative serum caveolin-1 as a prognostic marker for recurrence in a radical prostatectomy cohort. Clin Cancer Res 12 , 4872-4875 (2006).                                                                                                                  |
|    22 | Logozzi, M. et al. High levels of exosomes expressing CD63 and caveolin-1 in plasma of melanoma patients. PLoS One 4 , e5219 (2009).                                                                                                                                              |
|    23 | Crewe, C. et al. An Endothelial-to-Adipocyte Extracellular Vesicle Axis Governed by Metabolic State. Cell 175 , 695-708.e613 (2018).                                                                                                                                              |
|    24 | Llorente, A., de Marco, M.C. & Alonso, M.A. Caveolin-1 and MAL are located on prostasomes secreted by the prostate cancer PC-3 cell line. J Cell Sci 117 , 5343-5351 (2004).                                                                                                      |
|    25 | Phuyal, S. et al. The ether lipid precursor hexadecylglycerol stimulates the release and changes the composition of exosomes derived from PC-3 cells. J Biol Chem 290 , 4225- 4237 (2015).                                                                                        |
|    26 | Thery, C. et al. Proteomic analysis of dendritic cell-derived exosomes: a secreted subcellular compartment distinct from apoptotic vesicles. J Immunol 166 , 7309-7318 (2001).                                                                                                    |
|    27 | Denzer, K., Kleijmeer, M.J., Heijnen, H.F., Stoorvogel, W. &Geuze, H.J. Exosome: from internal vesicle of the multivesicular body to intercellular signaling device. J Cell Sci 113 Pt 19 , 3365-3374 (2000).                                                                     |
|    28 | Yanez-Mo, M. et al. Biological properties of extracellular vesicles and their physiological functions. J Extracell Vesicles 4 , 27066 (2015).                                                                                                                                     |
|    29 | Li, W.P., Liu, P., Pilcher, B.K. & Anderson, R.G. Cell-specific targeting of caveolin-1 to caveolae, secretory vesicles, cytoplasm or mitochondria. J Cell Sci 114 , 1397-1408 (2001).                                                                                            |
|    30 | Liu, P., Li, W.P., Machleidt, T. & Anderson, R.G. Identification of caveolin-1 in lipoprotein particles secreted by exocrine cells. Nat Cell Biol 1 , 369-375 (1999).                                                                                                             |
|    31 | Hosseini-Beheshti, E., Pham, S., Adomat, H., Li, N. & Tomlinson Guns, E.S. Exosomes as biomarker enriched microvesicles: characterization of exosomal proteins derived from a panel of prostate cell lines with distinct AR phenotypes. Mol Cell Proteomics 11 , 863- 885 (2012). |
|    32 | Kharaziha, P. et al. Molecular profiling of prostate cancer derived exosomes may reveal a predictive signature for response to docetaxel. Oncotarget 6 , 21740-21754 (2015).                                                                                                      |
|    33 | Phuyal, S., Hessvik, N.P., Skotland, T., Sandvig, K. &Llorente, A. Regulation of exosome release by glycosphingolipids and flotillins. FEBS J 281 , 2214-2227 (2014).                                                                                                             |
|    34 | Ariotti, N. et al. Molecular Characterization of Caveolin-Induced Membrane Curvature. J Biol Chem (2015).                                                                                                                                                                         |
|    35 | Tahir, S.A. et al. Tumor cell-secreted caveolin-1 has proangiogenic activities in prostate cancer. Cancer Res 68 , 731-739 (2008).                                                                                                                                                |
|    36 | Lachenal, G. et al. Release of exosomes from differentiated neurons and its regulation by synaptic glutamatergic activity. Mol Cell Neurosci 46 , 409-418 (2011).                                                                                                                 |
|    37 | Stenmark, H. et al. Inhibition of rab5 GTPase activity stimulates membrane fusion in endocytosis. EMBO J 13 , 1287-1296 (1994).                                                                                                                                                   |

|   38. | Kioumourtzoglou, D., Pryor, P.R., Gould, G.W. & Bryant, N.J. Alternative routes to the cell surface underpin insulin-regulated membrane trafficking of GLUT4. J Cell Sci 128 , 2423-2429 (2015).                                                   |
|-------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|    39 | Stevens, R.J., Akbergenova, Y., Jorquera, R.A. &Littleton, J.T. Abnormal synaptic vesicle biogenesis in Drosophila synaptogyrin mutants. J Neurosci 32 , 18054-18067, 18067a (2012).                                                               |
|    40 | Gambin, Y. et al. Single-molecule analysis reveals self assembly and nanoscale segregation of two distinct cavin subcomplexes on caveolae. Elife 3 , e01434 (2014).                                                                                |
|    41 | Gambin, Y. et al. Confocal Spectroscopy to Study Dimerization, Oligomerization and Aggregation of Proteins: A Practical Guide. Int J Mol Sci 17 (2016).                                                                                            |
|    42 | Ariotti, N. et al. Modular Detection of GFP-Labeled Proteins for Rapid Screening by Electron Microscopy in Cells and Organisms. Dev Cell 35 , 513-525 (2015).                                                                                      |
|    43 | Martell, J.D. et al. Engineered ascorbate peroxidase as a genetically encoded reporter for                                                                                                                                                         |
|    44 | Rothbauer, U. et al. A versatile nanotrap for biochemical and functional studies with fluorescent fusion proteins. Mol Cell Proteomics 7 , 282-289 (2008).                                                                                         |
|    45 | Walser, P.J. et al. Constitutive formation of caveolae in a bacterium. Cell 150 , 752-763 (2012).                                                                                                                                                  |
|    46 | Fielding, P.E., Chau, P., Liu, D., Spencer, T.A. & Fielding, C.J. Mechanism of platelet- derived growth factor-dependent caveolin-1 phosphorylation: relationship to sterol binding and the role of serine-80. Biochemistry 43 , 2578-2586 (2004). |
|    47 | Bruns, C., McCaffery, J.M., Curwin, A.J., Duran, J.M. & Malhotra, V. Biogenesis of a novel compartment for autophagosome-mediated unconventional protein secretion. J Cell Biol 195 , 979-992 (2011).                                              |
|    48 | Dupont, N. et al. Autophagy-based unconventional secretory pathway for extracellular delivery of IL-1beta. EMBO J 30 , 4701-4711 (2011).                                                                                                           |
|    49 | Duran, J.M., Anjard, C., Stefan, C., Loomis, W.F. & Malhotra, V. Unconventional secretion of Acb1 is mediated by autophagosomes. J Cell Biol 188 , 527-536 (2010).                                                                                 |
|    50 | Manjithaya, R., Anjard, C., Loomis, W.F. & Subramani, S. Unconventional secretion of Pichia pastoris Acb1 is dependent on GRASP protein, peroxisomal functions, and autophagosome formation. J Cell Biol 188 , 537-546 (2010).                     |
|    51 | Zhang, M., Kenny, S.J., Ge, L., Xu, K. &Schekman, R. Translocation of interleukin-1beta into a vesicle intermediate in autophagy-mediated secretion. Elife 4 (2015).                                                                               |
|    52 | Chen, Y. et al. Tyrosine kinase receptor EGFRregulates the switch in cancer cells between cell survival and cell death induced by autophagy in hypoxia. Autophagy 12 , 1029-1046 (2016).                                                           |
|    53 | Chen, Z.H. et al. Interaction of caveolin-1 with ATG12-ATG5 system suppresses autophagy in lung epithelial cells. Am J Physiol Lung Cell Mol Physiol 306 , L1016-1025 (2014).                                                                      |
|    54 | Chen, Z.H. et al. Autophagy protein microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain-3B (LC3B) activates extrinsic apoptosis during cigarette smoke-induced emphysema. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 107 , 18880-18885 (2010).                              |
|    55 | Bai, X. et al. CAV1-CAVIN1-LC3B-mediated autophagy regulates high glucose- stimulated LDL transcytosis. Autophagy , 10.1080/15548627.15542019.11659613 (2019).                                                                                     |

56. Carlsson,  S.R.  &amp;  Simonsen,  A.  Membrane  dynamics  in  autophagosome  biogenesis. Journal of Cell Science 128 , 193 (2015).
57. Karanasios, E. et al. Autophagy initiation by ULK  complex  assembly on  ER tubulovesicular  regions  marked  by  ATG9  vesicles. Nature  Communications 7 ,  12420 (2016).
58. Judith,  D. et  al. ATG9A  shapes  the  forming  autophagosome  through  Arfaptin  2  and phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase IIIβ. Journal of Cell Biology 218 , 1634-1652 (2019).
59. Hanada,  T. et  al. The  Atg12-Atg5  conjugate  has  a  novel  E3-like  activity  for  protein lipidation in autophagy. The Journal of biological chemistry 282 , 37298-37302 (2007).
60. Satoh, T. et al. Caveolin-1 expression is a predictor of recurrence-free survival in pT2N0 prostate carcinoma diagnosed in Japanese patients. Cancer 97 , 1225-1233 (2003).
61. Yang,  G.,  Truong,  L.D.,  Wheeler,  T.M.  &amp;  Thompson,  T.C.  Caveolin-1  expression  in clinically  confined  human  prostate  cancer:  a  novel  prognostic  marker. Cancer Res 59 , 5719-5723 (1999).
62. Karam, J.A. et al. Caveolin-1 overexpression is associated with aggressive prostate cancer recurrence. Prostate 67 , 614-622 (2007).
63. Hayashi,  Y.K. et  al. Human  PTRF  mutations  cause  secondary  deficiency  of  caveolins resulting in muscular dystrophy with generalized lipodystrophy. J Clin Invest 119 , 26232633 (2009).
64. Salle-Teyssieres,  L. et al. Maladaptative  Autophagy  Impairs  Adipose  Function  in Congenital  Generalized  Lipodystrophy  due  to  Cavin-1  Deficiency. J  Clin  Endocrinol Metab 101 , 2892-2904 (2016).
65. Murata, M. et al. VIP21/caveolin is a cholesterol-binding protein. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 92 , 10339-10343 (1995).
66. Ito,  J.,  Nagayasu,  Y.,  Kato,  K.,  Sato,  R.  &amp;  Yokoyama,  S.  Apolipoprotein  A-I  induces translocation of cholesterol, phospholipid, and caveolin-1 to cytosol in rat astrocytes. J Biol Chem 277 , 7929-7935 (2002).
67. Chang, W.J. et al. Purification and characterization of smooth muscle cell caveolae. J Cell Biol 126 , 127-138 (1994).
68. Ouyang, D.-Y. et al. Autophagy is differentially induced in prostate cancer LNCaP, DU145 and PC-3 cells via distinct splicing profiles of ATG5. Autophagy 9 , 20-32 (2013).
69. Kirkham, M. et al. Evolutionary analysis and molecular dissection of caveola biogenesis. J Cell Sci 121 , 2075-2086 (2008).
70. Lin,  H.M. et  al. A  distinct  plasma  lipid  signature  associated  with  poor  prognosis  in castration-resistant prostate cancer. Int J Cancer 141 , 2112-2120 (2017).
71. Ruelcke, J.E., Loo, D. &amp; Hill, M.M. Reducing the cost of semi-automated in-gel tryptic digestion  and  GeLC  sample  preparation  for  high-throughput  proteomics. J  Proteomics (2016).

(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.19.999441; this version posted March 20, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint

## Figure Legends

## Figure 1. Cav1 is released in a novel form from LNCaP cells

A)  Western  blots  of  PC3  cells  P100  fractions  demonstrating  the  ultracentrigation  purification method used in this study is not contaminated with subcellular protein markers.  EEA1, Syntaxin6, GM130, Nucleoporin and Phosphoinositide 3-kinase were absent from the P100 fraction in PC3 cells. Protein markers of exosomes including Flotillin-1, β-Actin and α-tubulin were detected by western  blot.  B)  Western  blot  analysis  and  quantification  of  released  Cav1  in  P100  and  S100 fractions. CD63 and Cav1 were enriched in the P100 fraction whereas Cav1 was absent from the S100  fraction.  C)  Western  blot  and  quantification  of  the  release  of  Cav1  from  LNCaP  cells transiently expressing Cav1. A proportion of Cav1 is observed in both the P100 and S100 fractions after ultracentifugation. D) Western blot of sucrose gradients from 0M to 2M of PC3 P100 fractions showing Cav1 fractionates at higher densities and co-fractionates with exosomal protein markers. E)  EM  of  sucrose  gradient  fractions  stained  with  0.4%  uranyl  acetate  mounted  in  2%  methyl cellulose. Peak exosomal morphology correlated with peak Cav1 protein levels. Left panel: fraction 7, right panel: fraction 8. Scale bars; 200 nm. F) Sucrose gradients of P100 and S100 fractions isolated from LNCaP cells demonstrating Cav1 is highly abundant in the S100 fraction consistently and fractionates at lower densities compared to Cav1 present in the P100 fraction and Cav1 secreted from PC3 cells. All western blots are representative blots chosen from three independent replicates.

## Figure 2. LNCaP cells release Cav1 in an antibody-accessible form.

A) Western blot of an immunoprecipitation of Cav1 from the LNCaP S100 fraction with an α-Cav1 antibody demonstrating Cav1 can be immunoisolated in the absence of detergent. B) Cav1 can be pulled down by GFP-trap binding to fusion tags at both the N- and C-termini of Cav1 without detergent treatment. C) Immunoprecipitation of PC3 cell culture medium with an α-CD63 antibody results in the pulldown of Cav1 in the absence of detergent whereas immunoprecipitation with an α-Cav1 antibody does not result in the isolation of Cav1 unless pre-treated with a detergent. D) Western  blot  demonstrating  pulldown  of  Cav1  from  the  PC3  P100  fraction  is  dependent  on detergent  treatment.  All  western  blots  are  representative  blots  chosen  from  three  independent replicates.

## Figure 3. Regulated release of Cav1 from LNCaP cells.

A) Western blot of Cav1 release from LNCaP cells stimulated with ionomycin. Cells were treated with 500 nM ionomycin in serum free media for various times (0 to 4 h). B) Peak release of Cav1

was observed after 1 h of treatment. Preferential release of Cav1 in the S100 fraction (compared to the P100 fraction) was observed and did not correlate with the release of LDH. A similar stimulation was observed for PC3 cells (see Fig. 3 Supplement - Figure 1A and B). C) LNCaP cells expressing GFP-Rab5Q79L;  Cav1  is  sorted  into  Rab5-positive  endosomes  in  the  absence  of  Cavin1 expression. D) Cavin1 expression sequesters and stabilises Cav1 at the PM within caveolae. E) Quantification  of  Cav1-positive  GFP-Rab5Q79L  endosomes  demonstrates  the  expression  of Cavin1 significantly reduced the internal pool of Cav1. Statistical significance was determined by two-tailed t tests; p = 0.0011, n = 3, error bars represent SEM. F) Quantification of western blots of the P100 and S100 fractions of Cavin1 expressing LNCaP cells compared to GFP expression alone. Cavin1 resulted in a reduction in Cav1 release in both fractions without altering LDH levels. n = 4; error bars represent SEM. We also confirmed that Cavin1 expression in PC3 cells (also devoid of Cavin1 expression 6 ) reduced internalisation and secretion of Cav1 (see Fig. S3).

## Figure 4. High-resolution analyses of C-exosomes and YFP-Cav1 in LNCaP cells.

A)  EM  of  YFP-Cav1  isolated  from  LNCaP  media  demonstrates  particles  are  regularly  shaped vesicles. Inset shows high-magnification image of stained LNCaP particles with a prominent coat on the external leaflet, which includes the YFP fusion and GFP-trap with a maltose binding protein tag. Scale bar = 500 nm. B - D) Single molecule analysis of YFP-Cav1 released from LNCaP cells. B) Control analysis of YFP alone demonstrates a residence time of approximately 95 μsec. C) Analysis of the residence time of YFP-Cav1 demonstrates a 7.5-fold increase in the residence time compared to YFP alone. D) Plot of burst brightness against the number of bursts of that brightness demonstrates the maximum number of YFP-Cav1 molecules per vesicle to range between 50-60 proteins. E - I) EM analyses of YFP distribution in cells using APEX-GBP expressing YFP-tagged constructs. E) Co-expression of YFP-Cav1 and APEX-GBP demonstrates morphologically typical localisation of Cav1 in BHK cells at caveolae on the PM of expressing cells. Arrows denote the caveolae with enriched electron density by the association of APEX-GBP. Cav = caveolae, PM = plasma membrane, scale bar = 500 nm. F) The co-expression of YFP and APEX-GBP demonstrates a cytoplasmic distribution for YFP alone. Scale bar = 500 nm. G) Lower magnification image of an LNCaP cell transfected with APEX-GBP and YFP-Cav1. Arrows highlight small vesicles with very strong reaction products that were absent from BHK cells. Black Arrowheads denote Cav1 positive endosomes and red arrow demonstrates Cav1 localisation to the PM. H) YFP-Cav1 vesicles are regular in size. I) High-magnification image of an YFP-Cav1 shows vesicles are membrane bound.  Scale  bars  =  500  nm.  Electron  micrographs  are  representative  images;  each  LNCaP experiment was independently replicated three times.

## Figure 5. Cav1 expression in PC3 results in predominantly endosomal localisation by APEXGBP and EM.

EM analysis of YFP distribution in cells using APEX-GBP expressing YFP-tagged constructs. A) The co-expression of YFP and APEX-GBP results in soluble reaction product localised to the cytoplasm of transfected cells. Asterisk denotes the electron density of an untransfected adjacent cell, PM = plasma membrane, M = mitochondria, scale bar = 500 nm. B) Electron micrograph of a PC3  cell  co-transfected  with  YFP-Cav1  and  APEX-GBP.  Electron  density  shows  significant enrichment of Cav1 at endosomes (white arrows), the plasma membrane (black arrow) and less frequently small vesicular structures in the cytoplasm (black arrowhead). En = Endosome, PM = plasma  membrane,  scale  bar  =  500  nm.  C  -  E)  ILVs  (white  arrowheads)  and  secreted ILVs/exosomes  (red  arrowheads)  highly  enriched  with  YFP-Cav1  and  APEX-GBP  inside endosomes and outside the cell. Scale bars = 500 nm. Electron micrographs are representative images; each PC3 experiment was independently replicated two times.

## Figure 6. Cav1 mutants are differentially released from LNCaP cells.

A) Western blot of the S100 and P100 fractions of Cav1 released from S80A and S80E expressing LNCaP cells. B) A relative increase in the release of the S80A in both the P100 and S100 fractions was observed compared to WT (n = 3). C) A relative reduction in the release of the S80E mutant was  observed  compared  to  WT.  While  LDH  levels  were  increased  with  the  expression  of  the Cav1S80E mutant, this would likely result in a corresponding increase in the non-specific release of. Despite this, a two-fold reduction in secreted Cav1 levels were observed. D) WT Cav1 partially co-localises with GM130 at the Golgi complex. E) The S80E mutant is almost exclusively localised to the Golgi complex. F) WT Cav1 is sorted into GFP-Rab5Q79L positive compartments. G) S80E mutant  is  not  efficiently  sorted  into  GFP-Rab5Q79L-positive  endosomes  H)  Cavin1-Flag expression  stabilises  Cav1  in  punctate  structures  at  the  PM  of  LNCaP  cells.  I)  Cavin1-Flag expression  does  not  stabilise  Cav1  at  the  surface  of  LNCaP  cells  and  Cavin1  remains cytoplasmic/soluble when co-transfected with the S80E mutant. J) LNCaP cells demonstrating the S80A point mutant efficiently generated C-exosome precursors in the cytoplasm. C-exosomes = black arrows. Scale bar = 500 nm. K) LNCaP cells expressing YFP-Cav1S80E mutant construct. The point mutation predominantly is localised to the Golgi complex and is inefficient in generating small Cav1-rich vesicles. Scale bar = 500 nm. Fluorescent images are representative images from three  independent  replicates.  Electron  micrographs  are  representative  images;  each  LNCaP experiment was independently replicated three times.

(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.19.999441; this version posted March 20, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint

## Figure 7. Cav1 secretion from LNCaP cells is mediated by an autophagy-dependent pathway.

A) Representative confocal microscopy images from three independent experiments showing colocalisation  between  YFP-Cav1  and  LC3B  in  LNCaP  cells.  Endogenous  LC3B  was  immunostained with rabbit anti-LC3B primary antibodies followed by a secondary Alexa555 fluorescent labelling. Single channel images were converted to black and white and the contrast was inverted. The  enlarged  region  demonstrates  the  overlapping  distribution  between  YFP-Cav1  and  LC3B. Scale bar, 10 ∝ m. B) LNCaP cells were serum starved for 6 h to induce autophagy. Autophagosome formation  was  indicated  by  the  immunofluorescence  for  endogenous  LC3B.  Knockdowns  of ATG5, -9A and -12 proteins inhibited autophagosome formation in both fed (upper panel) and serum starved (lower panel) LNCaP cells. Representative images of three independent experiments were converted to black and white and contrast inverted. Scale bar, 10 ∝ m. C) Representative fluorescent  images  demonstrating  a  reduction  of  YFP-Cav1  expression  levels  in  serum  starved LNCaP cells. Knockdown of ATG5, -9A or -12 and 3MA (5mM, 6 h) treatment restored YFP-Cav1 expression levels in starved cells.  Scale bar, 200 ∝ m. D) Representative western blots showing YFP-Cav1  protein  levels  in  whole  cell  lysates  (WCL)  and  S100  fractions  of  LNCaP  cells equivalently transfected with YFP-Cav1 (10 ∝ g DNA per 150 x 25 mm dish). The knockdown efficiency was assessed by the detection of ATG5, -9A and -12 protein levels. The ratio of LC3B II to LC3B I (LC3B II/I) was calculated as an indicator of autophagic levels in each group. An increase in the LC3B II/I ratio of the serum-starved siScrambled cells (2.8) compared to the fed siScrambled cells (1.3) indicates the induction of autophagy. E) Densitometry analysis of Western blots shown in (D) demonstrate that the co-transfection with ATG5, -9A or -12 siRNAs and 3MA treatment significantly (siATG5 starved vs. siScrambled starved: p = 0.0047; siATG9A starved vs. siScrambled starved: p &lt; 0.0001; siATG12 starved vs. siScrambled starved: p = 0.0031; 3MA starved  vs.  siScrambled  starved:  p  &lt;  0.0001)  rescued  the  downregulation  of  YFP-Cav1 (siScrambled fed vs. siScrambled starved: p = 0.0246) in the WCL of serum-starved cells compared to the fed cells. One-way ANOVA was performed for statistical analysis. F) The secretion (%) of YFP-Cav1 into the S100 fraction from LNCaP cells was significantly upregulated (siScrambled fed vs. siScrambled starved: p = 0.0011) upon serum starvation. The blockage of serum starvationinduced autophagy via ATG5, -9A, -12 knockdowns or 3MA treatment downregulated the secretion levels of YFP-Cav1. Statistically-significant effects (one-way ANOVA) were observed in ATG9A siRNA (siATG9A starved vs. siScrambled starved: p = 0.0152), ATG12 siRNA (siATG12 starved vs. siScrambled starved: p = 0.0056) and 3MA (3MA starved vs. siScrambled starved: p = 0.0007) treated groups.

(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.19.999441; this version posted March 20, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint

## Figure 8. Cav1 secretion from PCa cells.

A) Schematic summary of the exosomal release of Cav1 from PC3 cells. B) Schematic summary of the autophagy-based secretion of Cav1 from LNCaP cells.

(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.19.999441; this version posted March 20, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint

## Supplementary Data

## Figure S1.

Time course of exosomal secretion from PC3 cells.  Cav1, Flot1, actin and tubulin are secreted with or without serum indicating Cav1 detection in the media is a direct result of release from cells and not a consequence of Cav1 presence in serum exosomes. Moreover, independence from starvation suggests autophagy is not required for Cav1 secretion in PC3 cells.

## Figure S2.

A) Western blot of ProK-treated PC3 P100 fraction demonstrating Cav1 is unavailable for digestion unless membranes are disrupted with β-octylglucoside and Triton-X100. B) Proteinase-K mediated degradation of Cav1 isolated from the LNCaP S100 fraction results in a complete loss of the αCav1 recognition epitope without TX100 detergent treatment.)

## Figure S3.

A) Time course of Cav1 release after ionomycin treatment. Cells were treated with serum free media or 500 nM ionomycin. B) Peak secretion was observed at 30 to 60 minutes of treatment. C) PC3  cells  transiently  transfected  with  GFP-Rab5Q79L  accumulate  Cav1  within  enlarged endosomes.  D)  PC3  cells  co-transfected  with  Cavin1  reduces  the  sorting  of  Cav1  into  GFPRab5Q79L positive endosomes. E) Two-tailed t-test demonstrating a significant reduction in Cav1positive endosomes when Cavin1 is expressed. p = 0.0418, n = 4 with each independent repeat analyzing &gt; 20 cells per experimental condition, error bars represent SEM. F) Fold change in of Cav1 release from PC3 cells stably expressing GFP-Cavin1 compared to GFP. n = 3, error bars represent SEM.

Table  S1.  Proteomics  analysis  of  YFP-Cav1  particles. Proteome  composition  of GFP-trap pulldowns performed on conditioned media collected YFP-Cav1 or YFP expressing LNCaP cells (n=3) were analysed by SDS-PAGE gel separation, in-gel digest and LC-MS/MS analysis. Proteins that  were  significantly  different  (p&lt;0.05)  between  YFP-Cav1  and  YFP  groups  across  the  three replicates are highlighted in red font. Parameters and results from Scaffold analysis are shown in this document.

(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission. bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.19.999441; this version posted March 20, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint

Filename:

Ariotti\_et\_al\_manuscript.docx

Directory:

/Users/yeping.wu/Library/Containers/com.microsoft.Word/Dat

a/Documents

Template:

/Users/yeping.wu/Library/Group

Containers/UBF8T346G9.Office/User

Content.localized/Templates.localized/Normal.dotm

Title:

Subject:

Author:

Nicholas Ariotti

Keywords:

Comments:

Creation Date:

17/03/2020 11:23:00

Change Number:

10

Last Saved On:

18/03/2020 16:53:00

Last Saved By:

Yeping Wu

Total Editing Time:

100 Minutes

Last Printed On:

20/03/2020 14:24:00

As of Last Complete Printing

Number of Pages: 29

Number of Words:

20,508 (approx.)

Number of Characters:

116,900 (approx.)

Figure 1

<!-- image -->

Figure 2

<!-- image -->

Figure 3

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

Figure 4

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

Figure 5

<!-- image -->

Figure 6

<!-- image -->

A

B

Fed bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.19.999441; this version posted March 20, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint

(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder. All rights reserved. No reuse allowed without permission.

<!-- image -->

## siScrambled

<!-- image -->

siATG5

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

C

siScrambled

<!-- image -->

siATG9A

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

siATG5

siATG12

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

siATG9A

siATG12

siScrambled

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

Fed

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

3MA (5 mM)

<!-- image -->

Serum starved, 6 h

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

Fed

Serum starved, 6 h

Fed

Serum starved, 6 h

Figure 8

<!-- image -->

Figure S1

<!-- image -->

Figure S2

<!-- image -->

Figure S3

<!-- image -->