made available under aCC-BY-NC 4.0 International license. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.10.985721; this version posted March 10, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint

## Specialization of mid-tier stages of dorsal and ventral pathways in stereoscopic processing

<!-- image -->

1 Laboratory for Cognitive Neuroscience, Graduate School of Frontier Biosciences , 1 -4 Yamadaoka, Suita, Osaka 565 -0871, Japan

2 Center for Information and Neural Networks, Osaka University and National Institute of Information and Communications Technology, 1 -4 Yamadaoka, Suita, Osaka 565 -0871, Japan

3 Department of Psychology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA

4 Laboratory for Neural Circuits and Behavior, Center for Brain Science (CBS), 2-1 Hirosawa, Wako, Saitama, 351-0198, Japan

5 Lead contact

* Correspondence: fujita@fbs.osaka-u.ac.jp (I.F.) , doi.takah@gmail.com (T.D.)

6 These authors contributed equally.

## Keywords:

stereopsis, binocular vision, extrastriate visual cortex, disparity energy model, false-match rejection, macaque

made available under aCC-BY-NC 4.0 International license. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.10.985721; this version posted March 10, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint

## Abstract

The  division  of  labor  between  the  dorsal  and  ventral  visual  pathways  is  an  influential model  of  parallel information processing in the cerebral cortex.  However,  direct comparison of the two pathways at the single-neuron resolution has been scarce. Here we compare how MT and V4, mid-tier areas of the two pathways in the monkey, process binocular disparity, a powerful cue for depth perception and visually guided actions. We report a novel tradeoff where MT neurons transmit disparity signals quickly and robustly, whereas V4 neurons markedly transform the nature of the signals with extra time to solve the stereo correspondence problem. Therefore, signaling speed and robustness are traded for computational complexity. The key factor in this tradeoff was the shape of disparity tuning:  V4  neurons  had  more  even-symmetric tuning than MT neurons. Moreover, this correlation between tuning shape and signal transformation was present across individual neurons  within  both  MT  and  V4.  Overall,  our  results  reveal  both  distinct  signaling advantages  and  common  tuning-curve  features  of  the  dorsal  and  ventral  pathways  in stereoscopic processing. GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt;

made available under aCC-BY-NC 4.0 International license. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.10.985721; this version posted March 10, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint

## Introduction

GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt;

The dorsal and ventral pathways of the primate visual system have served as a widely influential  model  of  parallel  sensory  processing  in  the  mammalian  cerebral  cortex (Ungerleider and Mishkin, 1982). Similar organizational structures have been found in the visual  cortical  networks  of  cats  and  mice (Hilgetag  et  al.,  2000;  Wang  et  al.,  2012). Moreover,  related  ideas  have  been  put  forth  regarding  non-visual  domains  such  as auditory (Rauschecker and Scott, 2009), somatosensory (Dijkerman and DeHaan, 2007), and  language-related  processes (Hickok  and  Poeppel,  2007;  Saur  et  al.,  2008).  Despite their  widespread influence, direct comparison of the dorsal and ventral pathways at the single-neuron  resolution  is  surprisingly  scarce (Cheng  et  al.,  1994;  Lehky  and  Sereno, 2007), leaving open the exact nature of the differences and similarities between the two pathways.

In the visual systems of human and non-human primates, the dorsal pathway is implicated in spatial vision and vision for action, whereas the ventral pathway is implicated in object recognition  and  vision  for  perception (Goodale  and  Milner,  1992;  Ungerleider  and Mishkin,  1982).  Contrary  to  initial  speculation,  both  pathways  process  the  same  visual cues. Neurons with shape and color selectivity are found not only in ventral areas but also in dorsal areas (Seidemann et al., 1999; Sereno and Maunsell 1998). Likewise, neurons with  motion  direction  selectivity  are  found  not  only  in  dorsal  areas  but  also  in  ventral areas (Desimone and Schein, 1987; Li et al., 2013; Mountcastle et al., 1987). Investigating how the dorsal and ventral pathways process the same cue at the single-neuron resolution is critical to better understand the parallel processing strategies in the visual system.

One of the most notable visual cues in this regard is binocular disparity, the positional difference  between  images  projected  to  the  left  and  right  eyes.  As  a  precise  cue  for stereoscopic depth, binocular disparity is used  for many  functions,  including  the recognition  of  3D  objects,  visually  guided  3D  action  (e.g.,  reaching,  grasping,  and vergence  eye  movement),  and  navigation  through  the  3D  environment  (e.g.,  moving

GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt;

through  obstacles).  As  binocular  disparity  is  used  for  both  ÒwhatÓ  (object  vision)  and ÒwhereÓ (spatial vision) functions, the visual system processes binocular disparity along both the dorsal and ventral pathways (Neri, 2005; Orban et al., 2006; Parker, 2007; Roe et al., 2012; Welchman, 2016).

To encode binocular disparity faithfully  in  accordance  with  the  geometry  of  the  3D world, the visual system should identify the corresponding visual features in left and right retinal images that originate from the same surface point in the 3D space (Julesz, 1971; Marr and Poggio, 1979). A conventional method to probe the neuronal process for  stereo  correspondence  is  to  measure  the  disparity  selectivity  for  anticorrelated random-dot  stereograms  (aRDSs) (Chen  et  al.,  2017;  Cumming  and  Parker,  1997; Goncalves and Welchman, 2017; Janssen et al., 2003; Krug et al., 2004; Kumano et al., 2008; Nieder and Wagner, 2001; Ohzawa, 1998; Samonds et al., 2013; Takemura et al., 2001;  Tanabe  et  al.,  2004;  Theys  et  al.,  2012).  In  aRDSs,  one  eye  image  is contrast-reversed to eliminate the natural solution to the correspondence problem; the natural solution requires the depth of the corresponding points to vary smoothly over space, but such a solution does not exist for aRDSs. Accordingly, the neural correlate of  the  correspondence  solution  should  have  no  or  minimal  disparity  selectivity  for aRDSs. Although the activity of many V1 neurons encodes binocular disparity, these neurons also falsely encode the disparity embedded in aRDSs (Cumming and Parker, 1997). Simple computations akin to interocular cross-correlation explain this primitive disparity representation (Ohzawa et al., 1990). To solve the correspondence problem, a more complex computation should ensue and transform the primitive correlation-based disparity representation into the sophisticated representation that is based on binocularly matching features (Òmatch-based representationÓ). GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt;

In this study, we directly compared the disparity representations in areas MT and V4 of the  monkey.  MT  and  V4  are  counterpart  mid-tier  stages  of  the  dorsal  and  ventral pathways, both of which causally contribute to stereoscopic depth judgment (DeAngelis et al., 1998; Shiozaki et al., 2012; Uka and DeAngelis, 2006). We used a recently developed extension of aRDSs, called graded anticorrelation (Doi and Fujita, 2014; Doi et al. 2011, 2013). Moreover, we used virtually identical experimental and analysis methods (and one identical animal) in MT and V4 experiments to achieve a more controlled comparison of the two areas than has previously been attempted. We found that the disparity selectivity was indistinguishable between MT and V4 in their responses to the conventional stimuli, aRDSs. However, graded anticorrelation revealed that the disparity representation in V4 was  more  strongly  specialized  for  the  correspondence  solution  than  that  in  MT.  The relative advantage of MTÕs disparity signaling was its speed and strength. These results shed light on the division of labor between the dorsal and ventral pathways. The dorsal pathway  carries  out  rapid  signaling  to  produce  timely  behavioral  outputs,  whereas  the ventral  pathway  emphasizes  complex  computations  to  derive  sophisticated  sensory representations. We also found that the disparity-tuning shape was highly consistent with the  degree  of  neuronal  specialization:  neurons  with  more  even-symmetric  tuning  had responses closer to the correspondence solution both within and across MT and V4. We will  discuss  this  relationship  in  light  of  the  adaptation  of  the  stereoscopic  system  to natural binocular inputs (Haefner and Cumming, 2008). GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt;

## Results

GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt;

## Dissociating correlation-based and match-based representations by graded anticorrelation GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt;

We analyzed the neuronal responses to graded anticorrelation to characterize how well these  responses  conformed to  the  solution  of  the  correspondence  problem;  that  is,  how much the disparity tuning of a visual neuron deviated from the simple correlation-based representation  toward  a  more  sophisticated  match-based  representation (Doi  and  Fujita, 2014;  Doi  et  al.  2011,  2013).  For  this  assessment,  we  manipulated  the  binocular

made available under aCC-BY-NC 4.0 International license. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.10.985721; this version posted March 10, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint correlation of RDSs by reversing the luminance contrast of a varying proportion of dots in one eye ( Figure  1A ).  This  stimulus  manipulation  systematically  changed  the  binocular correlation  (correlation  between  the  left-eye  and  right-eye  images;  the  top  arrow  in Figure 1A ) and the binocular match (the percentage of binocularly matched features; the bottom  arrow  in Figure  1A )  in  a  dissociable  manner.  At  one  end,  correlated  RDSs (cRDSs) had 100% correlation and 100% match ( Figure 1A right). However, at the other end,  aRDSs  had -100%  correlation  and  0%  match,  indicating  complete  dissociation ( Figure  1A left).  In  the  middle, half-matched RDSs (hmRDSs) showed that half of the dots were contrast-reversed in one eye. Thus, the overall binocular correlation of hmRDSs was  0%  since  correlated  and  anticorrelated  dots  canceled  out,  while  the  strength (proportion)  of  the  binocular  match  was  50%,  indicating  dissociation  in  the  opposite direction.

We used these dissociated values of binocular correlation and binocular match to derive the predictions of disparity-tuning curves. A disparity detector with the pure correlation-based representation should lose its disparity selectivity and show flat tuning for  hmRDS, because hmRDSs offer no binocular correlation that is necessary for these kinds of detectors to encode disparity ( Figure 1B left, green line). For aRDSs, the same detectors should have an inverted tuning curve of the same magnitude as the curve for cRDSs, because of the sign inversion of the stimulus correlation ( Figure  1B left,  pink curve).  By  contrast,  ideal  match-based  detectors  should  retain  disparity  tuning  with  a decreased amplitude for hmRDSs but should lose disparity selectivity for aRDSs ( Figure 1B right). This is because hmRDSs contain binocularly matched features whereas aRDSs offer no correctly matching features between the two eyes (i.e., no natural solution to the correspondence problem). The disparity energy model is a classic implementation of the correlation-based detector (Cumming and Parker, 1997; Ohzawa et al., 1990). Additional nonlinearity  can  transform  the  correlation-based  detector  to  the  match-based  detector under some conditions (Doi and Fujita, 2014; Henriksen et al., 2016a).

Figure  1 GLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt; GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt; Correlation-based and  match-based  representations  predict distinct responses to graded anticorrelation.

<!-- image -->

( A ) Three RDSs with graded anticorrelation. From right to left, the fraction of binocularly contrast-matched  dots  decreases  from  100%  (correlated  RDS  or  cRDS)  through  50% (half-matched RDS or hmRDS) to 0% (anticorrelated RDS or aRDS). This same stimulus manipulation decreases binocular correlation gradually from 100% (cRDS) through 0% (hmRDS) to -100% (aRDS). ( B ) Hypothetical disparity-tuning curves to graded-anticorrelation stimuli as predicted by correlation-based or match-based disparity representations. In the correlation-based responses ( left ), the absolute value and the sign of  the  percent  binocular  correlation  determine  the  amplitude  and  shape  of  the  tuning function,  respectively.  In  the  match-based  responses  ( right ),  the  amplitude  reflects  the fraction of matched dots, and the shape is invariant.

## Disparity selectivity in MT and V4 is biased toward correlation-based and match-based representations, respectively GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt;

We recorded single-neuron activity from monkeys while they performed a fixation task. The monkey is an excellent model animal for binocular vision because like humans, they have two forward-facing eyes. Moreover, their binocular depth perception is  similar  to that in humans (Shiozaki et al. 2012; Uka et al., 1999). We compared how neurons in MT and V4  responded to graded anticorrelation by examining the responses of 83 disparity-selective  neurons  in  MT  (monkey  O,  N  =  32;  monkey  A,  N  =  51)  and  78 disparity  selective  neurons  in  V4  (monkey  O,  N  =  29;  monkey  I,  N  =  49).  Disparity selectivity was determined from the responses to cRDSs (Kruskal-Wallis test; p &lt; 0.05). Monkey O provided data sets for both MT and V4. We previously analyzed the same data set from V4 (Abdolrahmani et al., 2016), but most of the analyses in the current paper are novel, with two exceptions (i.e., Figures 2B,D for an example neuron and Figure 5E for direct comparison of a conventional metric against our novel metric). GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt;

The  graded  anticorrelation  of  RDSs  differentially  modulated  the  disparity  tuning  of neurons  in  MT  and  V4. Figure  2 shows  example  single  neurons  demonstrating characteristic  differences  between  the  MT  and  V4  populations.  Both  of  the  example neurons responded maximally at ÒnearÓ disparities with 100% binocular correlation, but the  decrease  in  the  correlation  level  changed  the  tuning  curves  differentially  between them. The change observed for the example MT  neuron  is reminiscent of the correlation-based representation of disparity: when the correlation level decreased from 100%  to  0%  (hmRDS),  the  tuning  amplitude  gradually  decreased  to  almost  zero  (flat curve). A further decrease in the correlation level from 0% to -100% (aRDSs) recovered the tuning but with an inverted shape ( Figure  2A ).  Compared to this MT example, the response pattern of the example V4 neuron was closer to the match-based representation: the  tuning  amplitude  was  noticeably  retained  at  0%  correlation  with  a  relatively unchanged tuning phase (shape). The tuning was more attenuated than the MT example at -100%  correlation,  without  the  exact  shape  inversion  ( Figure  2B ).  We  plotted  these

made available under aCC-BY-NC 4.0 International license. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.10.985721; this version posted March 10, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint responses in the 2D plane defined by binocular disparity and correlation level. The same pattern was also apparent when we compared the observed 2D response profiles ( Figures 2C,D ) to the predicted profiles from the correlation-based and match-based representations ( Figure  S1 ).  Below  we  quantify  and  validate  this  impression  with  both model-free and model-based analyses

<!-- image -->

GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt;

Figure 2. GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt; Disparity-tuning curves of example neurons in MT and V4.

The average firing rates  of  example  neurons  at  different  binocular-disparity  values  and binocular-correlation  levels  in  MT  ( A )  and  V4 ( B ).  Different  colors  indicate  different correlation levels. Error bars indicate the SEMs. Letters S, U, R, and L indicate the level of  spontaneous  (pre-stimulus)  activity,  the  response  to  uncorrelated  RDSs,  and  the responses  to  right  and  left  monocular  images,  respectively.  ( C,  D )  Color  plots  of responses of the neurons shown in A and B in a 2D plane defined by binocular disparity and correlation level. Brighter colors indicate stronger responses, as shown in the scale bars.  The  raw  responses  are  linearly  interpolated  in  both  dimensions.  The  V4  example was previously shown in Abdolrahmani et al., 2016.

made available under aCC-BY-NC 4.0 International license. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.10.985721; this version posted March 10, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint

The disparity representation was drastically different between neurons in MT and V4 at the  population  level.  MT  neurons  retained  the  characteristics  of  the  correlation-based disparity  representation  presumably  constructed  in  V1.  These  features  were  largely eliminated  in  V4,  where  the  disparity  selectivity  was  strongly  biased  toward  the match-based representation. Figure 3 shows the results of model-free population analyses without curve fitting. First, we analyzed the fraction of disparity-selective neurons in MT (Kruskal-Wallis test, p &lt; 0.05 tested independently at each correlation level below 100%). The fraction had a characteristic U  shape consistent with the correlation-based representation:  disparity  encoding  relies  on  the  non-zero  binocular  correlation  of  the stereo images ( Figure  3A ).  The  fraction  was  minimal at -30% correlation, where only one  out  of  83  MT  neurons  (1.2%)  was  disparity  selective.  With  further  decrease  from -30%  to -100%,  the  fraction  increased  to  21/83  (25.3%).  The  pure  correlation-based model posits that the fraction should be 1 at -100% correlation and the minimum at 0% correlation.  The  mismatch  slightly  hints  at  the  match-based  representation,  although overall the disparity selectivity in MT is correlation-based. GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt;

The tuning shape of MT neurons also exhibited the characteristic of the correlation-based representation: negative binocular correlation inverts the tuning shape (i.e., the preferred disparity  for  positively  correlated  RDSs  becomes  the  null  disparity  for  negatively correlated  RDSs  and vice  versa ).  We  detected  tuning  inversion  based  on  a  negative correlation  coefficient  between  the  responses  to  cRDSs  and  those  at  a  lower  binocular correlation  level.  In  MT,  the  fraction  of  the  neurons  with  inverted  tuning  gradually increased as binocular correlation decreased ( Figure 3C ). Notably, significant fractions of neurons inverted their tuning curves at the two most negative correlation levels we tested (75% [62/83]  and  78%  [65/83]  of  neurons  at  the -100% and -70% correlation  levels, respectively; p =  3.8 × 10 -6 and 1.1 × 10 -7 ;  H 0 :  the  fraction is 0.5; binomial test). We also observed  some  deviation  from  the  pure  correlation  representation:  the  fraction  of  the tuning inversion was not 1 at the -100% correlation level. The fraction was closest to 0.5

made available under aCC-BY-NC 4.0 International license. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.10.985721; this version posted March 10, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint at the -30% correlation level, echoing the finding that the fraction of disparity-selective neurons was minimal at -30% ( Figure 3A ). GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt;

The V4 population data were markedly different from the MT data, entirely lacking the aforementioned  characteristics  of  the  correlation-based  representation:  the  fraction  of disparity-selective neurons did not have the characteristic U shape. Less than half of the neurons showed the tuning curve inversion at any correlation levels tested. Instead, the disparity selectivity of V4  neurons was  mostly consistent with the match-based representation.  With  gradual  anticorrelation,  the  fraction  of  disparity-selective  neurons gradually  decreased  ( Figure  3B ),  mirroring  the  decrease  in  the  level  of  the  binocular match ( Figure  1A ).  This implies that the disparity selectivity in V4 mainly depends on the strength of the binocular match (i.e., the proportion of dots with binocularly matched contrasts).  The  gradual  increase  in  the  fraction  of  inverted  tuning  ( Figure  3D )  is  also consistent with the match-based representation, because when the tuning curves become flatter at lower correlation levels, more neurons can be taken to have inverted tuning due to response noise ( Figure 1B , right). Just as the MT data were not completely consistent with the pure correlation-based representation, the V4 data were not consistent with the pure  match-based  representation.  See  the  Discussion  section  for  how  aggregating  the population responses in V4 would help create the pure match-based representation.

<!-- image -->

GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt;

Figure  3.  Fractions  of  disparity-selective  neurons  and  inverted-tuning  neurons change with graded anticorrelation differently between MT and V4.

( A, B ) The fraction of disparity-selective neurons as a function of binocular correlation. The  dashed  line  indicates  the  chance  level  (0.05)  and  the  gray  area  indicates  its  95% interval  based  on  the  binomial  distribution.  The  fraction  at  100%  correlation  is  one because  of  our  cell  selection  procedure.  ( C,  D )  The  fraction  of  neurons  with  inverted disparity-tuning (relative to the tuning to cRDSs) as a function of binocular correlation. The chance level is 0.5. The fraction at 100% correlation is zero by definition. The figure is based on all the disparity-selective neurons recorded (as determined by the responses to cRDSs; 83 and 78 neurons for MT and V4, respectively). GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt;

made available under aCC-BY-NC 4.0 International license. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.10.985721; this version posted March 10, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint

The previous analysis averaged the response characteristics of individual neurons within MT and V4 at each correlation level. Next, we characterized how each individual neuron represented binocular disparity.  To  this  end,  we  extended  a  frequently  used  metric,  the amplitude  ratio,  which  quantifies  the  disparity-tuning  amplitude  at -100%  correlation (aRDS) relative to that at 100% correlation (cRDS; Cumming and Parker 1997; Krug et al.,  2004;  Kumano  et  al.,  2008;  Samonds  et  al.,  2013;  Tanabe  et  al.,  2004) .  First,  we added  a  sign  to  the  amplitude  ratio,  where  a  negative  sign  indicates  tuning  inversion. Second, we calculated the signed amplitude ratio for all intermediate correlation levels, not just for -100%. This signed amplitude ratio function should have different shapes for the  correlation-based  and  match-based  neurons  ( Figure  4A ).  For  the  correlation-based neurons,  it  should  decrease  from  1  through  0  to -1  as  binocular  correlation  decreases from 100% through 0% to -100%. For the match-based neurons, it should decrease as the correlation level decreases but should always stay above 0 except at -100% correlation. We  do  not  argue  that  the  match-based  prediction  must  be  exactly  linear  as  shown  in Figure 4A ; the linear decrease is just the simplest example of monotonic functions. GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt;

We  devised  a  new  metric  called  the  area  ratio  that  takes  the  value  of  1  for  the correlation-based neurons and 0 for the match-based neurons ( Figure 4B ). The numerator of  the  area  ratio  is  the  area  (integral)  of  the  signed  amplitude  ratio  function  across  the range where the function is negative (inverted tuning); the denominator is the area of the range  where  the  function  is  positive.  Therefore,  the  area  ratio  quantifies  how  strongly each  neuron  encodes  the  disparity  with  the  inverted  tuning  shape  as  opposed  to  the non-inverted tuning shape. We used the amplitude parameters of Gabor functions fitted to disparity-tuning data to calculate the signed amplitude ratios. Then, we fitted a quadratic function  to  interpolate  the  signed  amplitude  ratios  across  binocular  correlations.  The example MT and V4 neurons shown in Figure  2 had  the  area  ratios  of  0.79  and  0.15, respectively ( Figures 4C,D ).

Figure 4. GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt; Characterizing disparity representation for each individual neuron GLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt;

<!-- image -->

( A ) Correlation-based and match-based disparity representations predict different profiles for the signed amplitude ratio as a function of binocular correlation. The correlation -based representation  predicts  a  monotonic  decrease  of  the  signed  amplitude  ratio  from  1  for cRDSs  through  0  for  hmRDSs  to -1  for  aRDSs  ( left ),  whereas  the  match-based representation predicts a monotonic decrease from 1 for cRDSs through an intermediate positive value for hmRDSs to 0 for aRDSs ( right ). ( B ) Area ratio as a metric to quantify how well the observed responses conform to correlation-based or match-based prediction. The area ratio was defined as the ratio of two areas: the numerator was the area with the negatively  signed  amplitude  ratios  ( blue );  the  denominator  was  the  area  with  the positively  signed  amplitude  ratios  ( gray ).  An  area  ratio  of  one  indicates  perfectly correlation-based  responses  ( leftmost ),  and  an  area  ratio  of  zero  indicates  perfectly match-based responses ( rightmost ).  An intermediate area ratio indicates an intermediate representation type ( middle ).  ( C,  D )  Area ratios calculated for the example MT and V4 neurons shown in Figure 2 . The observed signed amplitude ratios were interpolated with best-fitted quadratic functions. GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt;

made available under aCC-BY-NC 4.0 International license. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.10.985721; this version posted March 10, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint

The  distributions  of  the  area  ratio  markedly  differed  between  MT  and  V4  (density distributions, Figures  5A,B ;  cumulative  distributions, Figure  5C ).  The  distribution  for MT  was  bimodal:  an  approximately  normal  distribution  centered  at  around  0.6  and another  peak  at  0.  The  distribution  for  V4  was  unimodal  and  was  strongly  skewed towards 0. QuantileÐquantile plots revealed that the MT and V4 data were close to normal and  exponential  distributions,  respectively,  within  the  interquartile  range  ( Figure  S2 ). The shape difference was statistically significant ( Figure 5C ; Kolmogorov-Smirnov test, p =  7.9 × 10 -5 ).  In  MT,  the  median  area  ratio  was  0.50  and  significantly  larger  than  0 (two-sided Wilcoxson  signed-rank  test, p = 1.6 × 10 -10 ). In V4,  it was  0.17 and significantly  lower  than  that  in  MT  (two-sided  Mann-Whitney U -test, p =  3.6 × 10 -4 ). These  results  suggest  that  MT  and  V4  are  qualitatively  different  in  terms  of  the composition  of  disparity-selective neurons. In area  V4,  many  single  neurons  are specialized  for  the  match-based  representation.  In  area  MT,  the  distribution  seems bimodal: some have the match-based representation but many have representations that are intermediate between fully match-based and fully correlation-based. GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt;

Critically, the difference between MT and V4 was revealed only by the area ratio and not by the amplitude ratio, the latter of which is the conventional metric based only on the responses to cRDSs and aRDSs. The distribution of the amplitude ratio was indistinguishable between the two areas ( Figures  5DÐF ).  The median values were 0.32 and 0.30 for MT and V4, respectively (two-sided Mann-Whitney U -test, p =  0.47). The results  of  this  control  analysis  are  instructive,  because  although  there  were  previous speculations  regarding  the  difference  between  MT  and  V4  in  disparity  representation, these were based on the neuronal response to aRDSs (Krug et al., 2004; Tanabe et al., 2004; for a review, see Parker, 2007). Our results show that characterizing the disparity selectivity  at  several  intermediate  levels  of  binocular  correlation  between -100%  and 100% was necessary to dissociate the depth representations in MT and V4.

<!-- image -->

GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt;

Figure  5.  Distinct  distributions  of  single-neuron  disparity  representation  between MT and V4 revealed only by area ratio. GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt;

Distributions  of  the  area  ratio,  our  new  metric  ( AÐC ),  and  the  amplitude  ratio,  the conventional metric ( DÐF ), are shown. AÐC consist of the neurons with good Gabor-function  fitting  to  disparity-tuning  curves  and  good  quadratic-function  fitting  to signed amplitude ratios (R 2 &gt; 0.6; MT, N = 59; V4, N = 43). DÐF consist of the neurons with good Gabor-function fitting (R 2 &gt; 0.6; MT, N = 76; V4, N = 71). Triangles indicate the medians. C and F show cumulative distributions of the area ratio and amplitude ratio, respectively. The amplitude ratio histogram for V4 ( E ) is a replot of the result reported in Abdolrahmani et al., 2016. GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt;

The above analyses  were  performed  for  the  neurons  whose  responses  were  well  fit  by Gabor  functions  (for  disparity-tuning  curves)  and  quadratic  functions  (for  the  signed amplitude ratio). We devised similar analyses that did not rely on the model fitting and confirmed  the  original  conclusion  ( Figure  S3A ,  two-sided  Mann-Whitney U -test, p = 2.3 × 10 -5 for  the  median  difference  of  the  model-free  area  ratio  between  MT  and  V4). Moreover,  the  difference  between  V4  and  MT  persisted  even  when  we  confined  our analyses to the data obtained from the same individual monkey ( Figure S3B ,  two-sided Mann-Whitney U -test, p = 9.9 × 10 -3 ). GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt;

We used dynamic RDSs in which dots randomly appeared and disappeared without any coherent motion, whereas most previous studies on stereo processing in MT used moving dots  with  100%  motion  coherence  (e.g.,  DeAngelis  and  Uka,  2003;  Krug  et  al.,  2004). One might argue that the use of non-coherent-motion RDSs in our experiments resulted in poorer disparity selectivity and led to a biased estimation towards the correlation-based representation  in  MT.  This  explanation  is  possible  because  stimuli  with  non-preferred motion parameters decrease the strength of disparity selectivity for cRDSs in MT (Palanca and  DeAngelis,  2003).  At  least  in  V1,  neurons  with  weaker  disparity  selectivity  for cRDSs  exhibit  responses  closer  to  the  correlation-based  prediction  (Henriksen  et  al. 2016b). However, we found no correlation between area ratio and the disparity selectivity for cRDSs (MT: SpearmanÕs correlation coefficient, rs = -0.25, p &gt; 0.05; V4: rs = -0.25, p &gt; 0.1; Figures S4A,B ), or between area ratio and the baseline response (MT: rs = -0.12, p &gt; 0.3; V4: rs = -0.08, p &gt; 0.6; Figures S4C,D ). These results suggest that neither the strength  of  the  disparity  selectivity  nor  the  responsiveness  is  strongly  related  to  which type of disparity representation a neuron exhibits in MT and V4. Therefore, we believe that the use of non-moving RDSs was unlikely to bias our estimation of area ratios, even though these RDSs might not drive MT neurons to their maximum responsiveness. GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt;

GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt;

## Disparity-tuning symmetry predicts disparity representation in MT and V4

Can  we  predict  if  a  disparity-selective  neuron  has  a  match-based  representation  or correlation-based  representation  based  on  its  responses  to  cRDSs?  If  so,  what  response

made available under aCC-BY-NC 4.0 International license. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.10.985721; this version posted March 10, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint feature carries the information about the representation type? We reported above that the strength of disparity selectivity or responsiveness was not correlated with the area ratio. Here,  we  examined  the  shape  of  the  disparity-tuning  curve  obtained  with  cRDSs.  The disparity-tuning curve has a more complicated form than orientation or direction-tuning curves, with an additional symmetry (phase) parameter. The tuning-curve symmetry has been  of  particular  interest  because  it  reflects  the  underlying  mechanism  of  disparity detection and implies the utility of the detected signals (Cumming and DeAngelis, 2001; DeAngelis et al., 1991; Marr and Poggio, 1979; Poggio and Fischer, 1977). For example, even-symmetric disparity tuning is a strong indication that the receptive fields in the left and right eyes have the same shape with a position offset (Ohzawa et al., 1997; Tanabe and Cumming, 2008). This mirrors the fact that an object located in depth generates a positional  offset  when  projected  to  the  left  and  right  eyes.  Therefore,  even-symmetric disparity-selective neurons could be most suited to represent naturally occurring configurations  of  binocular  images.  Conversely,  odd-symmetric  tuning  implies  that  the receptive  fields  have  different  shapes  (phases)  between  the  two  eyes  (DeAngelis  et  al., 1991; see Heafner and Cumming, 2008; Tanabe and Cumming, 2008 for a more complete model).  These  neurons  do  not  maximally  respond  to  natural  binocular  images  since objectÕs natural projections to the left and right eyes do not substantially differ in shape. Thus,  odd-symmetric  neurons  could  serve  as  the  detector  for  an  impossible  pair  of binocular images stimulating their receptive fields, thereby providing false-alarm signals to other populations of neurons (Read and Cumming, 2007). GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt;

We found a strikingly general relationship between the symmetry of the disparity-tuning curve  and  the  type  of  disparity  representation:  neurons  with  even-symmetric  tuning tended to have the match-based representation within both MT and V4. In addition, this relationship  applied  to  the  overall  comparison  between  MT  and  V4.  To  quantify  the symmetry  of  a  tuning  curve,  we  devised  a  metric  that  monotonically  encodes  the tuning-curve symmetry (see reflected symmetry phase in the Methods section; see Read and Cumming 2004 for symmetry phase). A larger value of the reflected symmetry phase

made available under aCC-BY-NC 4.0 International license. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.10.985721; this version posted March 10, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint indicates  a  stronger  odd  symmetry,  with  0  for  the  pure  even-symmetric  shape  (Òtuned excitatoryÓ or Òtuned inhibitoryÓ types by a conventional classification) and π /2  for  the pure odd-symmetric shape (ÒnearÓ or ÒfarÓ types). The area ratio was positively correlated with the reflected symmetry phase both in MT and V4 ( Figures 6A,B ; MT: rs = 0.55, p = 4.0 × 10 -6 ; V4: rs = 0.34, p = 0.025). The analyses based on the fitted Gabor phase instead of the reflected symmetry phase confirmed the same conclusion ( Figures S5A,B ).

<!-- image -->

GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt;

Figure 6. GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt; Area ratio is correlated with tuning-curve symmetry in both MT and V4.

Area ratios of neurons in MT ( A ) and V4 ( B ) were plotted against the reflected symmetry phase, which takes the value of 0 and π /2 for even-symmetric and odd-symmetric tuning curves, respectively. The symmetry was computed for the responses to correlated RDSs. The  plots  consist  of  the  neurons  with  good  fitting  quality  (R 2 &gt;  0.6  both  for  Gabor functions  for  disparity-tuning  curves  and  quadratic  functions  for  the  signed  amplitude ratio;  N = 59 and 43 for MT and V4, respectively). rs indicates SpearmanÕs correlation coefficient. GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt;

The same relationship also dictated the overall difference between neurons in MT and V4. We showed that neurons in MT had larger area ratios than those in V4 ( Figure 5C ). We found that neurons in MT had more strongly odd-symmetric tuning curves than those in V4 by comparing their distributions of the reflected symmetry phase ( Figure 7 ). In both MT and V4, the  phase  was  biased  toward  even-symmetric  shapes:  the  histograms  had peaks near 0 ( Figures 7A,B ). However, the distribution for MT was less strongly biased toward the even shape (a reflected symmetry phase of 0) than that for V4. The difference was  clearer  in  the  cumulative  distribution  ( Figure  7C ).  Although  the  median  values happened to be almost identical (0.074 π and  0.073 π for  MT  and  V4,  respectively),  the cumulative distribution for V4 was consistently biased towards smaller values than that for  MT.  Furthermore,  the  quantiles  of  these  two  distributions  had  a  linear  relationship with  a  slope  value  of  1.39  ( Figure  7D ;  SE  =  0.015;  R 2 =  0.98;  MT  quantiles  plotted against V4 quantiles), meaning that multiplying the reflected symmetry phases for the V4 data  set  by  1.39  brings  the  V4  and  MT  distributions  into  alignment.  Therefore,  the disparity tunings in V4 had more even-symmetric shapes than those in MT. At the same time, the disparity representations in V4 were more match-based than those in MT. These results  yield  a  strikingly  general  principle  of  the  stereoscopic  system  both  within  and across  the  dorsal  and  ventral  pathways:  neurons  with  even-symmetric  disparity-tuning curves  preferentially  constitute  the  neural  solution  to  the  correspondence  problem compared to those with odd-tuning curves.

<!-- image -->

GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt;

Figure 7. Tuning-curve symmetry is more strongly biased toward the even shape in V4 than in MT.

( A,  B )  The  distributions  of  the  reflected  symmetry phase. We included the neurons for which Gabor functions were well fitted to the disparity tuning (R 2 &gt; 0.6; N = 76 and 71 for MT and V4, respectively). The parts of the histograms with solid color correspond to the neurons for which quadratic functions were well fitted to the signed amplitude ratio (i.e.,  the  same  subpopulations  as  plotted  in Figure  6 and Figures  5AÐC ).  Triangles indicate  the  medians.  ( C )  Cumulative distributions of the reflected symmetry phase for the full populations shown in A and B . ( D ) Quantile-quantile plot comparing the shape of the  distribution  between  V4  and  MT.  N  =  71  (the  number  of  V4  neurons,  which  was smaller  than  that  of  MT  neurons).  The  horizontal  axis  plots  the  sorted  values  of  the reflected  symmetry  phase  for  V4.  The  vertical  axis  plots  the  interpolated  values  of  the reflected symmetry phase for MT at the corresponding quantiles. The black line indicates the linear regression. The flanking gray lines indicate the 95% confidence interval of the linear regression. GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt;

## MT exhibits stronger and faster disparity selectivity than V4 for correlated RDSs

GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt;

What is the advantage of the disparity signals transmitted by MT? We showed that MT had a more primitive, correlation-based disparity representation than V4, which manifested in how the disparity selectivity changed with graded anticorrelation. Here we show  that  the  disparity  selectivity  for  cRDSs  is  faster  and  stronger  in  MT  than  in  V4 ( Figure 8 ). We devised a metric called signed disparity discrimination index (sDDI) and computed it using a sliding time window both before and during the stimulus presentation (10-ms  width  and  step;  see  Prince  et  al.,  2002  for  DDI).  The  absolute  value  of  sDDI indicates the strength of the selectivity relative to the response noise: 0 for no selectivity and  1  for  extremely  large  selectivity  compared  to  the  noise  level.  The  positive  and negative signs indicate whether the instantaneous selectivity quantified over a short time window  is  consistent  with  or  opposite  from  the  overall  selectivity  quantified  over  the whole stimulus duration, respectively. GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt;

We found that the average sDDI of MT neurons rose faster and reached a higher level than  that  of  V4  neurons  ( Figure  8A ).  We  fitted  the  cumulative  Gaussian  function  to estimate  the  latency  and  amplitude  of  the  disparity  selectivity  (mean  and  amplitude parameters, respectively; Figure 8B ).  The latency was 78 ms in MT and 101 ms in V4 ( Figure 8C ). The peak sDDI was 0.18 in MT and 0.13 in V4. Thus, compared with MT, in V4 the latency was 29% greater and the strength was 28% lower. The differences were statistically  significant  ( p =  0.0083  and p &lt;  1.0 × 10 -4 for  the  latency  and  amplitude differences between MT and V4, respectively; 10,000 bootstrap resamples). These results were surprising given that we  used the RDSs  suitable for driving  V4  neurons (Abdolrahmani  et  al.  2016;  Kumano  et  al.,  2008;  Shiozaki  et  al.,  2012;  Tanabe  et  al., 2005; Tanabe et al. 2004; Umeda et al. 2007). For example, unlike previous MT studies (DeAngelis and Uka, 2003; Krug et al. 2004), our RDSs did not contain visual motion, and their dot patterns were updated only slowly (10.6 Hz). Overall, we suggest that MT signals  disparity  more  robustly  and  faster  than  V4,  providing  signals  useful  for  rapid

made available under aCC-BY-NC 4.0 International license. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.10.985721; this version posted March 10, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint three-dimensional eye movements (Masson et al., 1997) and urgent depth judgments in response to correlated stimuli.

<!-- image -->

GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt;

Figure 8. GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt; Comparison of the strength and speed of disparity selectivity between MT and V4 in response to cRDSs.

( A )  The  average  time  course  of  the  signed  disparity  discrimination  index  (sDDI).  The sDDI was calculated within 10-ms (non-overlapping) time windows for each cell and then averaged  across  cells  separately  for  MT  and  V4  (N  =  83  and  78,  respectively).  The smooth curves are fitted cumulative Gaussian functions. The vertical dashed line indicates the  stimulus  onset.  ( B )  Parameters  of  the  fitted  cumulative  Gaussian  function.  The amplitude parameter quantifies the saturation level of the sDDI. The mean parameter, our estimate of the selectivity latency, corresponds to the time required for the sDDI to rise to half  the  final  amplitude.  ( C )  Best-fitted  values  and  68% bootstrap confidence intervals. The latency and amplitude were significantly different between MT and V4. GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt;

made available under aCC-BY-NC 4.0 International license. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.10.985721; this version posted March 10, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint

## Discussion

GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt;

We  used  graded  anticorrelation  to  identify  whether  MT  and  V4  neurons  represented disparity  based  on  binocular  correlation  (as  prescribed  by  the  disparity  energy  model; Ohzawa  et  al.,  1990)  or  on  binocular  match  (as  consistent  with  the  solution  to  the binocular correspondence problem) ( Figure 1 ). An area-wise characterization of disparity tuning detected the signatures of the correlation-based representation in MT and those of the  match-based  representation  in  V4  ( Figure  3 ).  A  finer,  cell-by-cell  characterization revealed a qualitative difference in the distribution of the representation type between the two areas ( Figures 5AÐC ). MT appears to consist of two groups of neurons: one with the match-based  representation  and  the  other  with  the  intermediate  representation  ( Figure 5A ).  V4 lacked the intermediate group ( Figure  5B ).  This dissociation disappeared with the  analysis  based  on  the  conventional  methods  ( Figures  5DÐF ).  Importantly,  in  both areas,  the  shape  of  the  disparity  tuning  (in  responses  to  cRDSs)  predicted  the  type  of representation: more even-symmetric neurons showed stronger biases toward the match-based  representation  ( Figure  6 ).  This  relationship  was  also  observed  for  the inter-area  comparison  between  MT  and  V4  ( Figures  5,7 ).  Lastly,  although  the  type  of disparity  representation  was  more  primitive  overall  in  MT  than  in  V4,  the  disparity signaling for cRDSs was stronger and faster in MT ( Figure 8 ).

## Explanations for the links between even-symmetric disparity tuning and match-based disparity representation

The  symmetry  (phase)  of  disparity-tuning  curves  has  been  studied  for  decades  to understand  the  neural  coding  of  disparity (DeAngelis et  al.,  1991;  DeAngelis  and  Uka, 2003; Hinkle and Connor, 2005; Ohzawa et al., 1997; Poggio and Fischer, 1977; Poggio et al., 1988; Prince et al., 2002; Read and Cumming, 2004; Tanabe and Cumming, 2008; Tanabe et al., 2005). Although many theories have been proposed (e.g., Fleet et al., 1996; Goncalves and Welchman, 2017; Read and Cumming 2007), no empirical data have been reported regarding how the disparity-tuning symmetry relates to the process of solving a

made available under aCC-BY-NC 4.0 International license. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.10.985721; this version posted March 10, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint fundamental computational problem of stereopsisÑthe correspondence problem. In this study,  we  found  that  neurons  with  even-symmetric  tuning  preferentially  constituted  the neural solution to the correspondence problem in extrastriate areas ( Figure 6 ). Below we propose two interpretations regarding this novel finding.

First,  we  propose  that  the  observed  link  between  tuning  symmetry  and  disparity representation may share a common cause: adaptation of the visual system to the natural configurations of binocular images. The correlation-based representation is the product of a  simple  mechanism  that  does  not  consider  whether  the  input  images  have  natural  or unnatural configurations. By contrast, the match-based representation can be viewed as the  result  of  the  active  adaptation  to  naturally  occurring  binocular  images (Haefner and Cumming, 2008). Within our stimulus space, the strength of the binocular match indicates how  naturalistic  our  stimuli  are:  cRDSs  are  most  naturalistic  in  the  sense  that  the correspondence  problem  has  a  smooth  solution  (Marr  and  Poggio,  1976);  aRDSs  are naturally impossible stimuli, and half-matched RDSs are an intermediate type ( Figure 1 ). In parallel to the type of disparity representation, the symmetry of disparity tuning also carries  implications regarding the process of natural versus unnatural binocular images. Neurons with even-symmetric disparity tuning are better suited to detect binocular images with natural configurations. This is because the left-eye and right-eye receptive fields of these  neurons have a positional offset, just as natural pairs of binocular images do. By contrast,  neurons  with  odd-symmetric  tuning  are  bound  to  respond  most  vigorously  to unnatural binocular images (Read and Cumming, 2007), because the monocular receptive fields of odd neurons have interocular phase differences (for energy model-based analyses, see DeAngelis et al., 1991; Ohzawa et al., 1997; Prince, Cumming, and Parker, 2002; for experimental verification in macaque V1 and V2, see Tanabe and Cumming, 2008). Such interocular phase shifts do not occur in natural binocular stimuli.

We have explained the adaptation to natural binocular inputs in two different aspects of neuronal  disparity  selectivity:  disparity  representation  and  disparity-tuning  symmetry. These  two  aspects  could  be  independent  characteristics  of  cortical  disparity  coding.  In

fact,  according  to  the  disparity  energy  model,  all  disparity  detectors  should  have  the correlation-based  representation  irrespective  of  the  tuning  symmetry.  Nevertheless,  we repeatedly  found  the  same  link  between  disparity  representation  and  tuning  symmetry within  V4,  within  MT,  and  across  the  two  areas.  A  network  of  extrastriate  areas  may converge  the  two  kinds  of  adaptation  to  natural  binocular  inputs  onto  the  same subpopulation of disparity-selective neurons. Such neurons can be viewed as having an efficient  representation  of  binocular  disparity  because  they  dedicate  their  disparity encoding to the naturally occurring inputs (Attneave,  1954;  Barlow,  1961;  Haefner  and Cumming, 2008).

The second interpretation regards the mechanisms for transforming the simple correlation-based  representation  into  the  match-based  representation.  Adding  expansive nonlinearity  to  disparity  energy  models  can  achieve  the  transformation  under  some conditions (Doi  and  Fujita,  2014;  Lippert  and  Wagner,  2001).  Although  the  additional nonlinearity must be only part of the full mechanism, it has psychophysical (Doi et al., 2013; Henriksen et al., 2016a) and physiological support (Henriksen et al., 2016b). A key constraint of this mechanism is that the energy-model units should have even-symmetric, but not odd-symmetric, disparity tuning. For example, the tuning shape for hmRDSs is consistent  with  that  for  cRDSs  only  when  the  initial  units  have  even-symmetric  tuning (Doi et al., 2013). This constraint could also explain why the match-based representation is more prevalent in neurons with even-symmetric tuning. GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt;

## Contributions of the MT and V4 disparity signals to perception, eye movements, and downstream activity

Two different laboratories have independently examined MT and V4 with aRDSs before. A naive comparison of their results suggests that neurons in V4 have response patterns closer to the correspondence solution than those in MT (compare Figure 3C in Krug et al., 2004 and Figure 6A in Tanabe et al., 2004; for review see Parker, 2007). However, the apparent difference between MT and V4 in the two studies might arise from differences in the cell-selection procedures used: the MT study excluded the cells without the significant

made available under aCC-BY-NC 4.0 International license. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.10.985721; this version posted March 10, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint disparity selectivity for aRDSs from the figure, whereas the V4 study did not. Indeed, a more  recent study showed  that when  the selection procedure was  matched, the population-averaged response to aRDS was nearly indistinguishable between MT and V4 (Abdolrahmani et al., 2016). We confirmed this conclusion in the present study, where the experimental and analysis methods were matched between the two areas more than any previous comparison ( Figures 5DÐF ).

Using a novel analysis method, we found a qualitative difference in disparity representations between MT and V4 ( Figures 5AÐC ). What are the roles of each area in perception  and  action?  We  propose  that  MT  pathway  quickly  and  robustly  relays  the correlation-based  disparity  signals  to  the  behavioral  stage.  The  use  of  MTÕs  disparity signals  should  not  be  limited  to  visually  guided  actions,  because  the  link  between  the disparity-selective neurons in MT and stereoscopic depth judgment has been demonstrated  extensively  using  a  coarse  depth  task (Chowdhury and  DeAngelis,  2008; DeAngelis et al. 1998; Uka and DeAngelis, 2004).

Interestingly,  MT  neurons  with  more  odd-symmetric  tuning  have  stronger  response correlation (i.e., choice probability) to the judgment of coarse depth (Uka and DeAngelis, 2004). This may appear contradictory to our finding that more even-symmetric neurons tended to have the match-based disparity representation. We present two explanations for this apparent contradiction. First, extensive behavioral training probably caused the high choice correlation of odd-symmetric neurons observed in Uka and DeAngelis (2004) (as suggested by the authors). During the training, they used near and far stimuli that are most suitably  processed  by  odd-symmetric  neurons.  By  contrast,  our  monkeys  were  trained only on the fixation task, so that the link between the tuning symmetry and representation type reported in this study is an innate property of the stereoscopic system. Second, some aspects of stereoscopic depth perception may not require the correspondence problem to be fully solved; these include coarse stereopsis (considering Uka and DeAngelis [2004] and  this  study  together)  and  the  perception  of  3D  structure-from-motion (Krug  et  al.,

made available under aCC-BY-NC 4.0 International license. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.10.985721; this version posted March 10, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint

2004). According to this notion, the correlation-based disparity signals in MT should be able to contribute to depth perception.

Our above proposal is supported by earlier psychophysical studies with the same graded anticorrelation paradigm (see Fujita and Doi, 2016 for a review). Human depth judgment does indeed exhibit a trace of the correlation-based disparity representation (e.g., reversed depth  perception  for  aRDSs;  Aoki  et  al.,  2017;  Tanabe  et  al.,  2008).  Moreover,  the inferred contribution of the correlation-based representation to perceived depth increases with the magnitude of stimulus disparity (Doi et al., 2011) as well as with the stimulus pattern refresh rate (Doi et al., 2013). The magnitude effect is consistent with the finding that MT contributes to coarse, but not fine, depth judgment (Uka and DeAngelis, 2006). The  refresh-rate  effect  is  consistent  with  the  notion  that  MT  is  likely  to  contribute  to perception more with dynamic stimuli than with static ones.

We  also  suggest  that  the  disparity  signals  in  MT  drive  the  reflexive  vergence  eye movement  via the medial superior temporal area (Takemura et al., 2001). For anticorrelation,  the  vergence  eye  movement  responds  in  the  opposite  direction  from stimulus  disparity  with  a  reduced  amplitude (Masson  et  al.,  1997),  suggesting  that  the driving signal is intermediate between the match-based and correlation-based representations.  Many  MT  neurons  we  observed  fell  into  this  category  (see  the  second peak in the histogram in Figure 5A ). The vergence response can be very fast, starting to rise only 60Ð70 ms after the stimulus onset (Masson et al., 1997), and requiring the fast and robust disparity signals that we observed in MT ( Figure  8 ).  Our suggestion is also consistent  with  the  finding  that  MT  neurons  represent  the  ÒabsoluteÓ  disparity  of  a stimulus, without being sensitive to the disparity of a reference plane (Uka and DeAngelis, 2006). This response property is a prerequisite for the vergence drive (Westheimer and Mitchell, 1956).

We  suggest  that  V4  plays  a  key  role  in  transforming  the  disparity  signals  from  early visual  areas  into  the  inputs  useful  to  the  inferior  temporal  (IT)  cortex,  thereby  helping

made available under aCC-BY-NC 4.0 International license. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.10.985721; this version posted March 10, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint create the full-fledged representations of 3D objects and 3D scenes at the end stage of the ventral pathway (Yamane et al., 2008; Verhoef et al., 2016). Consistent with the idea that V4 is in the middle of the transformation process is the finding that the correspondence problem is not yet fully solved in the single-neuron activity we observed in V4. Close inspection  of Figure  3B reveals  that  the  fraction  of  disparity-selective  neurons  did  not noticeably  decrease  from  correlation  levels  0%  to -100%, although the strength  of  the binocular  match  decreased  from  50%  to  0%  ( Figure  1 ).  This  discrepancy  can  be mitigated by aggregating the population responses just the way decision-making circuits would do (Abdolrahmani et al., 2016). This is because at -100% correlation, roughly half of the V4 neurons had inverted tuning curves ( Figure 3D ). If the responses of V4 neurons are  aggregated  according  to  their  preferred  disparity  for  cRDSs  (in  our  stimulus  space, these  are  the  most  naturalistic  stimuli  to  which  the  decision  mechanisms  are  likely  to adapt), their tuning curves at -100% correlation are averaged out and flattened (Doi et al., 2018). This averaging out would not occur at 0% correlation, because the tuning shape at 0%  correlation  tended  to  be  consistent  with  that  at  100%  correlation  (as  predicted  by models of the match-based representation ; Doi and Fujita, 2014; Doi et al., 2013). Thus, the  aggregated  V4  responses  should  resemble  the  pure  match-based  representation  of disparity. This property of V4 neurons should presumably help downstream areas such as the  IT  cortex  represent  a  complete  solution  to  the  correspondence  problem  at  the individual-neuron level (Janssen et al. 2003).

We also suggest that V4 is critical for the perception of fine depth, because fine disparity perception  entirely  relies  on  the  match-based  representation  (Doi  et  al.,  2011).  Several physiological results strongly support this view. First, V4 neurons have choice-predictive responses during a fine depth task (Shiozaki et al., 2012). Second, microstimulation of a cluster  of  V4  neurons  biases  the  judgment  of  fine  depth  in  the  way  predicted  from  the response  property  of  the  stimulated  cluster (Shiozaki  et  al.,  2012).  Lastly,  V4  neurons encode the ÒrelativeÓ disparity between the center and surround of their receptive fields, a property necessary for supporting stereoacuity and a precursor for

made available under aCC-BY-NC 4.0 International license. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.10.985721; this version posted March 10, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint fixation-depth-invariant  representation  of  3D  objects (Umeda  et  al.,  2007).  We  also suggest that V4 is important for 3D shape perception, because the perceptual discrimination of disparity-defined 3D shapes is difficult without match-based disparity signals (Asher and Hibbard, 2018; Tanabe et al., 2008). This is broadly consistent with the finding that V4 is involved in the encoding of 3D shape cues such as 3D slant (Hinkle and Conner,  2002).  Overall,  the  signals  in  V4,  including  the  selectivity  for  match-based disparity, fine disparity, and 3D shape cues, should help the ventral pathway derive a fully developed representation of 3D objects and 3D scenes in its highest stage, the IT cortex. GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt;

## Concluding remarks

GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt;

We report the division of labor between extrastriate areas MT and V4 in stereopsis, as revealed by a novel manipulation of RDSs. We suggest that area MT, a mid-tier stage in the  dorsal  pathway,  relays  the  primitive  correlation-based  disparity  signals  without considerably refining the nature of the signals. Instead, this pathway has the advantage in terms of signaling speed and strength, which are useful for rapid vergence eye movements and  coarse  depth  perception.  By  contrast,  area  V4,  a  counterpart  stage  in  the  ventral pathway, predominantly processes more sophisticated disparity signals based on binocular match. These signals help the end stage of the ventral  pathway,  the  IT  cortex,  to  fully solve  the  binocular  correspondence  problem  and  derive  the  fine  representations  of  3D objects. Therefore, the division of labor between the dorsal and ventral visual pathways may embody the tradeoff between the rapid and robust transmission of sensory signals and  the  complex  computation  needed  to  derive  elaborate  sensory  representations.  This proposal provides a unified account for two earlier theories on the dorsal versus ventral division  of  labor (Goodale  and  Milner,  1992;  Ungerleider  and  Mishkin,  1982).  For example,  vision  related  to  action  may  depend  more  on  the  dorsal  pathway  because  it benefits from rapid, robust sensory transmission, and so does visual motion perception. The  analyses  of  colors  and  objects  depend  more  on  the  ventral  pathway  because  they require complex computations.

made available under aCC-BY-NC 4.0 International license. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.10.985721; this version posted March 10, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint

We  also  note  that  the  response  characteristics  of  individual  neurons  are  diversely distributed across MT and V4. Moreover, MT and V4 share a common link between the disparity-tuning  shape  and  the  type  of  disparity  representation.  It  is  possible  that  the interactions  between  the  dorsal  and  ventral  pathways  play  several  roles  in  solving  the correspondence  problem,  deriving  3D  object  representation,  making  decision  about stereoscopic  depth,  and  generating  object-oriented  motor  action  (e.g.,  reaching  and grasping), as suggested by a broad range of evidence from neuroanatomy, single-neuron recording, electro-encephalography, psychophysics, and brain imaging (Borra et al., 2008, 2010;  Cottereau  et  al.,  2014;  Farivar,  2009;  Fujita  and  Doi,  2016;  Freud  et  al.,  2016; Janssen et al., 2018; Van Polanen and Davare, 2015).

made available under aCC-BY-NC 4.0 International license. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.10.985721; this version posted March 10, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint

## Acknowledgments

We thank H. Ban, Y. Sakano, H.M. Shiozaki, and B.G. Wundari for comments on earlier versions  of  the  manuscript;  S.  Mita,  T.  Oga,  M.  Onoue,  and  M.  Inagaki  for  technical assistance;  T.  Uka,  K.  Okada,  Y.  Kobayashi,  H.  Kumano,  T.M.  Sanada,  and  M. Saruwatari  for  technical  advice;  and  M.  Omokawa  for  animal  care.  This  work  was supported by grants to I.F. from the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology  of  Japan  (MEXT;  23240047,  15H01437,  17H01381,  18H05007)  and  the Ministry  of  Internal  Affairs  and  Communications.  The  monkeys  were  provided  by  the National Institute of Natural Sciences (NINS) through the National Bio-Resource Project (NBRP) of the MEXT, Japan GLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt;GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt;

## Author Contributions

GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt;

T.W.Y., T.D., M.A., and I.F. designed the research; T.W.Y. and M.A. conducted the MT and V4 experiments, respectively; T.W.Y. and T.D. analyzed the data; and T.W.Y., T.D., M.A., and I.F. wrote the paper.

## Competing Interests

The authors declare no competing interests.

GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt;

made available under aCC-BY-NC 4.0 International license. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.10.985721; this version posted March 10, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint

## Methods

We recorded single neuron responses from areas MT and V4 of two Japanese monkeys ( Macaca fuscata ).  All procedures were approved by the Animal Experiment Committee of  Osaka  University,  and  conformed  to  the  Guide  for  the  Care  and  Use  of  Laboratory Animals  issued  by  the  National  Institutes  of  Health,  USA.  The  data  sets  and  analysis codes  for  reproducing  the  results  reported  in  this  study  are  available  upon  reasonable request to the lead contact Ichiro Fujita (fujita@fbs.osaka-u.ac.jp).

Animal preparation . We used two Japanese monkeys (Monkey O, male, weighing 8.5 kg; Monkey A, female, weighing 5.7 kg). In both monkeys, a head-holding device was attached  to  the  skull  and  Teflon-insulated  stainless-steel  search  coils  were  implanted between the conjunctiva and sclera in both eyes under anesthetic and aseptic conditions. For  details  of  the  surgical  procedures,  see  Kumano  et  al.  (2008).  Briefly,  the  monkeys were  administered  atropine  sulfate  (0.02  mg/kg,  i.m.)  to  reduce  salivation  and  were sedated  with  ketamine  (5  mg/kg,  i.m.).  Anesthesia  was  maintained  by  inhalation  of  a mixture of isoflurane (0.3Ð2.0%, Forane, Abbott), nitrous oxide (66%), and oxygen (33%). Lidocaine was used for local anesthesia as needed. Throughout surgery, we continuously monitored electrocardiogram data, arterial oxygen saturation levels (SPO 2 ), end-tidal CO 2 levels, and heart rate. Postoperatively, we administered a general antibiotic (piperacillin sodium),  ocular  antibiotic  (ofloxacin),  glucocorticoid  (betamethasone),  and  analgesic (ketoprofen). We trained the monkeys to perform a fixation task (see below). When the training was  complete,  we  performed  another  surgery  under  the  same  anesthetic procedure  to  implant  a  chamber  for  recording  from  MT  (inner  diameter,  19  mm;  Crist Instruments, Hagerstown, MD). The chamber was placed on the occipital cortex 17 mm lateral and 14 mm dorsal to the occipital ridge tilted posteriorly at an angle of 25¡ above the horizontal. The skull inside the chamber was removed with a trephine (Fine Science Tools,  North  Vancouver,  Canada).  We  collected  the  data  of  V4  neurons  in  a  previous study (Abdolrahmani et al., 2016) by placing a recording chamber 25 mm dorsal and 5 mm posterior to the external ear canals. For the V4 experiments, we used Monkey O (the

same monkey used in MT recording) and Monkey I ( Macaca mulatta , male) weighing 6.5 kg.

Behavioral  task . The monkeys viewed a CRT monitor (refresh rate 85 Hz; Multiscan G520, Sony) at a distance of 57 cm. The monitor covered a visual angle of 40¡ × 30¡. We alternately  presented  images  to  the  left  and  right  eyes  with  custom-made  OpenGL software, a quad-buffered graphics card, and shutter glasses based on ferroelectric liquid crystal  devices  (LV2500P-OEM,  Citizen  FineDevice,  Yamanashi,  Japan).  The  left  and right shutter glasses alternately closed at each refresh of the display. Although the use of the shutter glasses decreases  the effective  binocular  correlation  compared  with  a haploscope, we have previously shown that the effective correlation is an unbiased, linear function of the notional correlation value (Abdolrahmani et al., 2016). Therefore, the use of shutter glasses did not complicate our interpretations as a result of artifactual distortion of the effective binocular correlation. Upon presentation of a white point at the center of the monitor, the monkeys were required to fixate it within 500 ms. After fixation, a visual stimulus was presented for 500 ms to both monkeys in the MT experiment and to monkey O  in  the  V4  experiment;  the  stimulus  duration  was  700  ms  for  monkey  I  in  the  V4 experiment.  The  monkeys  had  to  maintain  fixation  within  a  1.5¡ × 1.5¡  window  and  a vergence angle within ± 0.25¡ for another 200 ms. The eye positions were monitored with a scleral eye-coil system (DSC-2000, Sankei Kizai, Tokyo, Japan). For successful trials, the monkeys received drops of juice or water as a reward. When the monkeys failed to maintain fixation, they did not receive a reward, and the data were discarded.

Visual stimuli . We used circular patches of dynamic random-dot stereograms (RDSs) as visual stimuli. The RDSs consisted of a central disk and a surrounding ring with no gap between them. The central disk was positioned to cover the classical receptive field (RF) of  a  recorded  neuron.  The  surrounding  ring  was  1.6¡  wide.  RDSs  contained  an  equal number of bright (2.28 cd/m 2 ) and dark (0.01 cd/m 2 ) dots with a gray background (1.14 cd/m 2 ). Luminance was measured through the shutter glasses placed between the monitor and  a  photometer  (CS1000,  Konica  Minolta,  Tokyo,  Japan),  and  linearized  (gamma

made available under aCC-BY-NC 4.0 International license. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.10.985721; this version posted March 10, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint corrected). We used only red phosphors to minimize inter-ocular crosstalk (&lt; 3% of the background) because the decay time is shorter for red phosphors than for green and blue phosphors. The dot size was 0.17¡ × 0.17¡ with anti-aliasing. The dot density was 25%.

We  manipulated  the  binocular  disparity  and  binocular  correlation  of  the  central  disk, whereas  these  aspects  of  the  surrounding  ring  were  fixed  at  zero  disparity  and  100% correlation. We manipulated the binocular correlation of the central disk by reversing the luminance  contrast  of  a  varying  proportion  of  dots  in  one  eye  (graded  anticorrelation, Figure 1A

; Doi et al., 2011, 2013). Note that this manipulation of the stimulus correlation is detectable only through binocular viewing; it does not change the overall luminance of the  stimulus,  because  the  RDSs  are  composed  of  the  same  numbers  of  bright  and  dark dots.

Recording techniques . A tungsten electrode (0.3Ð2.0 M Ω at 1 kHz; FHC Bowdoinham, ME) was inserted into the cortex through a transdural guide tube using a micromanipulator (MO-971, Narishige, Tokyo, Japan). Extracellular neural signals were amplified ( × 5,000; MDA4-I, Bak Electronics, Mount Airy, MD) and filtered (0.5Ð5 kHz; Multifunction  Filter  3624,  NF  Corporation,  Yokohama,  Japan).  Action  potentials  from single  neurons  were  isolated  by  either  a  dual-window  discriminator  (DDIS-1,  Bak Electronics,  Mount  Airy,  MD)  or  a  template-matching  sorting  system  (Multi  Spike Detector, Alpha-Omega Engineering, Nazareth, Israel). Times of spike occurrences and positions of both eyes were stored at 1-ms resolution for offline analysis.

We identified area MT based on the motion direction tuning of single- and multi-neuron activity, the relation between eccentricity and RF size, and changes in RF location along the  electrode  penetrations (Gattas  &amp;  Gross,  1981;  Van  Essen  et  al.,  1981),  as  well as general anatomical position. We confirmed the location of MT based on the pattern of gray  matter  and  white  matter  encountered  during  electrode  penetration  before  reaching MT as well as during the subsequent entry, after a short silent region (sulcus), into area MST, which had large, contralateral RFs covering a quadrant or half of the display (Gu et

made available under aCC-BY-NC 4.0 International license. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.10.985721; this version posted March 10, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint al.,  2006;  Uka  &amp;  DeAngelis,  2003).  After  all  recording  experiments  were  finished,  we made electrolytic lesions (10 nA for 10 s, electrode negative) at three to five sites in or around  the  recording  regions.  The  monkeys  were  then  euthanized  with  an  overdose infusion of pentobarbital sodium and perfused from the heart with 0.1% phosphate-buffered  saline  (PBS)  and  4%  paraformaldehyde.  The  brains  were  removed, postfixed,  frozen,  and  cut  into  60-micron-thick  serial,  parasagittal  sections.  Alternate sections were stained for cell bodies with the Nissl method or for myelinated axons with the  Gallyas  method  (Gallyas,  1979).  We  successfully  recovered  all  the  lesions.  We verified  that  we  recorded  from  MT  deep  in  the  posterior  bank  of  a  caudal  part  of  the superior  temporal  sulcus  where  layers  IVÐVI  contained  a  dense  and  uniform  band  of myelin  fibers (Ungerleider  and  Mishkin,  1979;  Van  Essen  et  al.,  1981).  For  the identification and RF information of V4 neurons, see Abdolrahmani et al. (2016).

Most of our MT neurons (65 out of 83) had their RFs in the lower visual field; RFs of all of our V4 neurons (N = 78) were located in lower visual field. The mean eccentricity was 6.9¡ (SD = 3.3¡) for MT and 9.0¡ (SD = 3.0¡) for V4 in our data sets. Although the mean eccentricity was slightly larger in V4 than in MT, we found no correlation between the area  ratio  (our  metric  for  disparity  representation:  see  below)  and  eccentricity  either  in MT (SpearmanÕs  correlation rs = -0.035, p =  0.79)  or  in  V4  ( rs = -0.065, p =  0.68). Therefore, it is unlikely that the observed difference in disparity representation between MT and V4 reflects the potentially confounding effects of eccentricity.

Experimental procedures. Here we describe the procedures used for area MT. We used similar  procedures  for  area  V4,  but  see  Abdolrahmani  et  al.,  2016  for  details.  After isolating single-neuron activity, we determined its classical RF by a patch of RDSs (size: 3¡ or smaller, disparity: 0¡, dot-pattern refresh rate: 10.6 Hz in most cases). We measured direction tuning with a patch of dots coherently moving in one of eight directions (45¡ apart). We then probed the range of disparity tuning with dynamic, non-motion-coherent RDSs in several (at least three) stimulus presentation trials. For this initial test, we used cRDSs  with  nine  disparities  ( -1.6¡  to  1.6¡  in  0.4¡  intervals)  and  uncorrelated  RDSs

(uRDSs; RDSs with independently created left-eye and right-eye images). After all these tests, we measured the responses to RDSs with several binocular disparities (tailored for each recorded neuron based on the initial test) and correlation levels (100%, 70%, 30%, 0%, -30%, -70%, and -100%). The dot-pattern refresh rate was set to 10.6 Hz, the value used for the V4 experiment.

Data  analysis GLYPH&lt;c=3,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt; All  analyses  were  carried  out  with  MATLAB  (The  MathWorks).  The spontaneous firing rate was calculated for a 250-ms period preceding the stimulus onset and averaged across trials. To construct disparity-tuning curves, the mean firing rate at each correlation level and disparity was calculated for a certain time window. The time window overlapped with the stimulus presentation  period  but  was  delayed  to  take  into account response onset and offset latency (60 ms for MT and 80 ms for V4). The average firing rate was based on at least five trials. One of the monkeys (Monkey O) was used in both  MT  and  V4  experiments.  The  V4  data  were  used  in  our  previous  publication (Abdolrahmani  et  al.,  2016),  but  the  main  analyses  of  the  current  paper  are  all  new. Particularly,  we  quantified  the  disparity  representation  of  each  V4  neuron  and  directly compared it against MT results in this study.

Gabor function for disparity tuning. We characterized neuronal disparity tuning by fitting a  Gabor  function,  a  product  of  a  Gaussian  envelope  and  a  cosine  carrier,  to  the  mean firing rate data. At each level of binocular correlation, the mean firing rate ( R ) at disparity ( x ) was defined as follows: GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt;

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where A , ! 0 , ! 0 , σ , f and φ represent the amplitude, baseline response, horizontal position, envelope  width,  carrier  frequency,  and  carrier  phase,  respectively.  We  performed  a half-wave  rectification  for R because  the  firing  rate  cannot  be  negative.  Only  the amplitude  and  phase  parameters  were  independently  fitted  across  different  binocular correlation  levels,  because  the  differences  in  these  two  parameters  characterize  the

made available under aCC-BY-NC 4.0 International license. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.10.985721; this version posted March 10, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint correlation-based  and  match-based  representations  ( Figure  1B ).  The  other  parameters were shared across  different  correlation  levels.  The  fmincon  function  in  the  MATLAB Optimization Toolbox was used for finding the parameter combination that minimizes the summed  squared  error  between  the  single-trial  firing  rates  and  Gabor  functions.  The goodness  of  fit  was  estimated  by  taking  the  R 2 between  the  mean  firing  rates  and  the best-fitted Gabor function separately for each correlation level. After fitting, we selected 76  MT  and  71  V4  disparity-selective  neurons  that  had  good  fitting  quality  for  the responses to cRDSs (R 2 &gt; 0.6).

Signed amplitude ratio. To characterize how a binocular-correlation decrease from 100% changes  disparity  tuning,  we  devised  the  signed  amplitude  ratio  by  modifying  a  more conventional  metric,  the  amplitude  ratio (Cumming &amp; Parker 1997). We computed the signed amplitude  ratio at each level of binocular correlation for each cell.  The conventional  amplitude  ratio  quantifies  how  much  the  fitted  Gabor  amplitude  changes because of the anticorrelation of stereograms. The conventional metric was given a sign that was determined based on how anticorrelation changed the shape of disparity tuning. When anticorrelation inverted the shape, we gave a negative sign. We detected the shape inversion based on the change in the symmetry phase (see below). The symmetry phase difference between two tuning curves had to be smaller than -0.5 π or larger than 0.5 π for the shape inversion to be detected.

Reflected symmetry phase. When the cycle of the carrier sinusoid is much larger than the Gaussian envelope width, the Gabor phase may not be a good indicator for the true shape of disparity-tuning curves (Read and Cumming, 2004). In this case, the sinusoidal carrier does not constrain the shape of the fitted Gabor function. Accordingly, the neurons with even-symmetric  tuning  curves  can  be  classified  as  odd  symmetric  if  we  use  the  fitted value  of  the  carrier  phase  (confirmed  in  our  data  set).  We  therefore  characterized  the shape  of  the  disparity-tuning  curve  by  calculating  the  symmetry  phase (Read  and Cumming, 2004). This metric directly estimates the relative weights of even-symmetric and  odd-symmetric  components  in  the  overall  shape  of  the  fitted  tuning  curve.  The

symmetry  phase  of  zero  or π corresponds  to  the  pure  even  symmetry,  whereas  the symmetry phase of ± π /2 corresponds to pure odd symmetry. To construct a metric that monotonically quantifies the tuning symmetry, we devised reflected symmetry phase. We changed the symmetry phase to the absolute value. Then, we wrapped the absolute value into  the  range  from  zero  (purely  even  symmetric)  to π /2  (purely  odd  symmetric)  by reflecting it at π /2.

Area ratio. We characterized how well each of the recorded disparity-selective neurons followed the correlation-based or match-based prediction using their responses over the entire  range  of  binocular  correlation.  This  analysis  consisted  of  two  steps.  First,  we characterized  how  the  signed  amplitude  ratio  changed  as  a  function  of  binocular correlation. Although the simplest examples shown in Figure 4A are linear functions, we fitted  a  quadratic  function  to  the  observed  data  and  this  often  showed  nonlinear  trends ( Figures 4C,D ). The quadratic coefficient was almost always positive, meaning that the nonlinearity  was  expansive  (84%  for  MT,  90%  for  V4).  We  quantified  the  degree  of nonlinearity using the ratio of the quadratic coefficient to the linear coefficient from the best-fitted quadratic function (Britten et al., 1993). The ratio was significantly higher than zero  for  both  MT  and  V4  (MT:  median,  0.02;  lower-quartile,  0.0057;  upper-quartile, 0.0597;  two-sided  Wilcoxson  signed-rank  test, p =  3.6 × 10 -14 ;  V4:  median,  0.02; lower-quartile,  0.0116;  upper-quartile,  0.028; p =  2.4 × 10 -13 ),  validating  our  use  of quadratic  functions.  The  function  was  constrained  to  take  the  value  of  one  at  100% correlation. The sum-squared error was minimized. Second, we calculated the area ratio to quantify how  well  the  fitted quadratic  function  followed  the  correlation-based prediction  versus  the  match-based  prediction  ( Figures  4A,B ).  The  denominator  of  the area ratio was the area (integral) of the fitted quadratic function across the range where the fitted function was positive (gray triangle in Figure 4B ). The numerator was the area of the function over the range where the function was negative (blue triangle). Because the correlation-based representation should  have  perfectly  inverted disparity-tuning curves for two binocular correlation values with the same magnitude but opposite signs, it

should lead to an area ratio of one. By contrast, the match-based representation should have a flat tuning curve at -100% correlation, leading to an area ratio of zero.

Signed disparity discrimination index (sDDI). The conventional disparity discrimination index (DDI) measures the disparity discriminability of a neuron as follows (Prince et al., 2002): GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt;

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where Rpref and Rnull indicate  the  mean  firing  rates  of  a  neuron  at  its  preferred  and  null disparities, respectively (in response to cRDSs). The SSE is the sum of the squared error of single-trial responses (around the mean; i.e., the tuning curve); N and M indicate the total  number  of  trials  and  the  number  of  tested  disparities,  respectively.  A  DDI  of  0 indicates no selectivity (i.e., a completely flat tuning curve); a DDI of 1 indicates that the tuning curve amplitude is so large that the noise level is negligible.

We  wanted  to  compute  DDIs  using  small,  sliding  time  windows  to  examine  how  the disparity selectivity developed in MT and V4. Therefore, we modified the conventional DDI as follows: GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/YRYPMZ+MS-PGothic&gt;

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where t indicates the time from the stimulus onset. The firing rates were computed over the  window  ±  5  ms  around  the  time t .  Note  that  we  defined  the  preferred  and  null disparities based on the responses over the entire stimulus duration (as for the standard DDI), because our aim was to quantify the instantaneous selectivity that was congruent to the overall selectivity. If we defined the preferred and null disparities at each time t , the sDDI  value  would  always  be  above  zero  (due  to  the  circular  logic),  complicating  the interpretation.  With  our  definition,  the  sDDI  could  have  a  negative  value  when  the selectivity  at  time t differed from the selectivity over the entire stimulus duration. This

made available under aCC-BY-NC 4.0 International license. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.10.985721; this version posted March 10, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint t was small, and well before the cellÕs response latency.

tended to happen more often when During this period, responses are noisy and the sign of the sDDI is stochastic.

Cumulative  Gaussian  function  for  the  sDDI  time  course. We  fitted  the  cumulative Gaussian function with an amplitude parameter ( Figure 8B ) to the sDDI time course for MT and V4. During the fitting, we minimized the sum of the squared errors between the fitted  function  and  the  mean  sDDI  (averaged  across  cells  in  each  area).  We  used bootstrapping to estimate the 68% confidence intervals of fitted parameter values. When constructing an artificial  data  set,  we  resampled  the  neurons  with  replacement  for  each area  (N  =  83  and  78  for  MT  and  V4,  respectively)  and  computed  the  new  sDDI  mean value  at  each  time  point.  The  confidence  interval  was  computed  based  on  10,000 resampled data sets.

Computation of the area ratio without model fitting. We computed the area ratio entirely without model fitting and confirmed the same conclusion. For this model-free analysis, we substituted the amplitude parameter of the fitted Gabor function with the peak-to-trough  difference  of  raw  disparity-tuning  data.  The  sign  of  the  amplitude  ratio was determined using the sign of the correlation coefficient between the raw tuning data at 100% binocular correlation and those at lower binocular correlations. This was because the  tuning-curve  inversion  should  lead  to  a  negative  correlation  coefficient.  We  also substituted the quadratic-function fitting to signed amplitude-ratio data with the piecewise linear interpolations between two adjacent raw data points. Then, we calculated the area ratio  based  on  the  areas  surrounded  by  these  piecewise  linear  interpolations  and  the horizontal baseline (zero signed amplitude ratio). The numerator and denominator of the area ratio were the net areas below and above baseline, respectively. For the model-free analysis, we used our entire data set (83 MT and 78 V4 disparity-selective neurons).

## References

Abdolrahmani,  M.,  Doi,  T.,  Shiozaki,  H.M.,  and  Fujita,  I.  (2016).  Pooled,  but  not single-neuron, responses in macaque V4 represent solution to the stereo correspondence problem. J. Neurophysiol. 115 , 1917-1931.

Aoki, S.C., Shiozaki, H.M., and Fujita, I. (2017). A relative frame of reference underlies reversed depth perception in anticorrelated random-dot stereograms. J. Vis. 17 , 1-17.

Asher  J.M.,  and  Hibbard,  P.B.  (2018).  First-  and  second-order  contributions  to  depth perception in anti-correlated random dot stereograms. Sci. Rep. 8 , 1-19.

Attneave, F. (1954). Some informational aspects of visual perception. Psychol. Rev. 61 , 183-193.

Barlow,  H.B.  (1961).  Possible  principles  underlying  the  transformations  of  sensory messages.  In  Sensory  Communication  (ed.  Rosenblith,  W.A.)  pp.  217-234.  MIT  Press, Cambridge, MA.

Borra, E., Belmalih, A., Calzavara, R., Gerbella, M., Murata, A., Rozzi, S., and Luppino, G. (2008). Cortical connections of the macaque anterior intraparietal (AIP) area. Cereb. Cortex. 18 , 1094-1111.

Borra,  E.,  Ichinohe,  N.,  Sato,  T.,  Tanifuji,  M.,  and  Rockland,  K.S.  (2010).  Cortical connections to area TE in monkey: hybrid modular and distributed organization. Cereb. Cortex 20 , 257-270.

Britten, K.H., Shadlen, M.N., Newsome, W.T., and Movshon, J.A. (1993). Response of neurons in macaque MT to stochastic motion signals. Vis. Neuwosci. 10 , 1157-1169.

Chen, G., Lu, H.D., Tanigawa, H., and Roe, A.W. (2017). Solving visual correspondence between  the  two  eyes  via  domain-based  population  encoding  in  non-human  primates. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 114 , 13024-13029.

Cheng, K., Hasegawa T., Saleem K.S., and Tanaka, K. (1994). Comparison of neuronal selectivity  for  stimulus  speed,  length,  and  contrast  in  the  prestriate  visual  cortical  areas V4 and MT of the macaque monkey. J. Neurophysiol. 71 , 2269-2280.

Chowdhury,  S.A.,  and  DeAngelis,  G.C.  (2008).  Fine  discrimination  training  alters  the causal contribution of macaque area MT to depth perception. Neuron 60 , 367-377.

Cottereau,  B.R.,  Ales,  J.M.,  and  Norcia,  A.M.  (2014).  The  evolution  of  a  disparity decision in human visual cortex. Neuroimage 92 , 193-206.

Cumming, B.G., and DeAngelis, G.C. (2001). The physiology of stereopsis. Annu. Rev. Neurosci. 24 , 203-238.

Cumming, B.G., and Parker, A.J. (1997). Responses of primary visual cortical neurons to binocular disparity without depth perception. Nature 389 , 280-283.

DeAngelis, G.C., Cumming, B.G., and Newsome, W.T. (1998). Cortical area MT and the perception of stereoscopic depth. Nature 394 , 677-680.

DeAngelis, G.C., Ohzawa, I., and Freeman, R.D. (1991). Depth is encoded in the visual cortex by a specialized receptive field structure. Nature 352 , 156-159.

DeAngelis, G.C., and Uka, T. (2003). Coding of horizontal disparity and velocity by MT neurons in the alert macaque. J. Neurophysiol. 89 , 1094-1111.

Desimone, R.,  and  Schein,  S.J.  (1987).  Visual  properties  of  neurons  in  area  V4  of  the macaque: sensitivity to stimulus form. J. Neurophysiol. 57 , 835-868.

Dijkerman,  H.C.,  and  de  Haan  E.H.F.  (2007).  Somatosensory  processes  subserving perception and action. Behav. Brain Sci. 30 , 189-239.

Doi,  T.,  Abdolrahmani,  M.,  and  Fujita,  I.  (2018).  Spatial  pooling  inherent  to  intrinsic signal optical imaging might cause V2 to resemble a solution to the stereo correspondence problem. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 115 , 201807687. doi: 10.1073/pnas.1807687115.

Doi,  T.,  and  Fujita,  I.  (2014).  Cross-matching:  a  modified  cross-correlation  underlying threshold energy model and match-based depth perception. Front. Comput. Neurosci. 8 , 1-15.

Doi, T., Takano, M., and Fujita, I. (2013). Temporal channels and disparity computations in stereoscopic depth perception. J. Vis. 13 , 1-25.

Doi,  T.,  Tanabe,  S.,  and  Fujita,  I.  (2011).  Matching  and  correlation  computations  in stereoscopic depth perception. J. Vis. 11 , 1-16.

Farivar, R. (2009). Dorsal-ventral integration in object recognition. Brain Res. Rev. 61 , 144-153.

Fleet, D.J., Wagner, H., and Heeger, D.J. (1996). Neural encoding of binocular disparity: energy model, position shifts and phase shifts. Vision Res. 36 , 1839-1857.

Freud, E., Plaut, D.C., and Behrmann, M. (2016). ÔWhatÕ is happening in the dorsal visual pathway. Trends Cogn. Sci. 20 , 773-784.

Fujita, I., and Doi, T. (2016). Weighted parallel contributions of binocular correlation and match signals to conscious perception of depth. Phil. Trans. R. Soc. B 20150257.

Gallyas, F. (1979). Silver staining of myelin by means of physical development. Neurol Res. 1 , 203-209.

Gattas, R., and Gross, C.G. (1981). Visual topography of striate projection zone (MT) in posterior superior temporal sulcus of the macaque. J. Neurophysiol. 46 , 621-638.

Goncalves, N.R., and Welchman, A.E. (2017). ÒWhat notÓ detectors help the brain see in depth. Curr Biol. 27 , 1403-1412.

Goodale, M.A., Milner, A.D. (1992). Separate visual pathways for perception and action. Trends Neurosci. 15 , 20-25.

Gu, Y., Watkins, P.V., Angelaki, D.E., and DeAngelis, G.C. (2006). Visual and nonvisual contributions  to  three-dimensional  heading  selectivity  in  the  medial  superior  temporal area. J. Neurosci. 26 , 73-85.

Haefner, R.M., and Cumming, B.G. (2008). Adaptation to natural binocular disparities in primate V1 explained by a generalized energy model. Neuron 57 , 147-158.

Henriksen,  S.,  Cumming,  B.G.,  and  Read,  J.C.A.  (2016a).  A  single  mechanism  can account  for  human  perception  of  depth  in  mixed  correlation  random  dot  stereograms. PLoS Comput. Biol. 12 , e1004906.

Henriksen, S., Read, J.C.A., and Cumming, B.G. (2016b). Neurons in striate cortex signal disparity in half-matched random-dot stereograms. J. Neurosci. 36 , 8967-8976.

Hickok, G., and Poeppel, D. (2007). The cortical organization of speech processing. Nat. Rev. Neurosci. 8 , 393-402.

Hilgetag, CC. Burns, G.A.P.C., OÕNeill, M.A., Scannell, J.W., and Young, M.P. (2000). Anatomical  connectivity  defines  the  organization  of  clusters  of  cortical  areas  in  the macaque monkey and the cat. Phil. Trans. R. Soc. B 355 , 91-110.

Hinkle, D.A., and Connor, C.E. (2002). Three-dimensional orientation tuning in macaque area V4. Nat. Neurosci. 5 , 665-670.

Hinkle, D.A., and Connor, C.E. (2005). Quantitative characterization of disparity tuning in ventral pathway area V4. J. Neurophysiol. 94 , 2726-2737.

Janssen, P., Verhoef, B.E., and Premereur, E. (2018). Functional interactions between the macaque  dorsal  and  ventral  visual  pathways  during  three-dimensional  object  vision. Cortex 98 , 218-227.

Janssen, P., Vogels, R., Liu, Y., and Orban, G.A. (2003). At least at the level of inferior temporal cortex, the stereo correspondence problem is solved. Neuron 37 , 693-701.

Julesz, B. (1971). Foundations of Cyclopean Perception (Chicago: Univ Chicago Press).

Krug,  K.,  Cumming,  B.G.,  and  Parker,  A.J.  (2004).  Comparing  perceptual  signals  of single V5/MT neurons in two binocular depth tasks. J. Neurophysiol. 92 , 1586-1596.

Kumano, H., Tanabe, S., and Fujita, I. (2008). Spatial frequency integration for binocular correspondence in macaque area V4. J. Neurophysiol. 99 , 402-408.

Lehky, S.R., and Sereno, A.B. (2007). Comparison of shape encoding in primate dorsal and ventral visual pathways. J. Neurophysiol. 97 , 307-319.

Li, P., Zhu, S., Chen, M., Han C., Xu, H., Hu, J., Fang, Y., and Lu, HD. (2013). A motion direction preference map in monkey V4. Neuron 78 , 376-388.

Lippert, J., and Wagner, H. (2001). A threshold explains modulation of neural responses to opposite-contrast stereograms. Neuroreport 12 , 3205-3208.

Marr,  D.,  and  Poggio,  T.  (1976).  Cooperative  computation  of  stereo  disparity.  Science 194 , 283-287.

Marr, D., and Poggio, T. (1979). A computational theory of human stereo vision. Proc. Roy. Soc. Lond. B. Biol. Sci. 204 , 301Ð328.

Masson,  G.S.,  Busettini,  C.,  and  Miles,  F.A.  (1997).  Vergence  eye  movements  in response to binocular disparity without depth perception. Nature 389 , 283-286.

Mountcastle, V.B., Motter, M.A., Steinmetz, M.A., and Sestokas, A.K. (1987). Common and differential effects of attentive fixation on the excitability of parietal and prestriate (V4) cortical visual neurons in the macaque monkey. J. Neurosci. 7 , 2239-2255.

Neri, P. (2005). A stereoscopic look at visual cortex. J. Neurophysiol. 93 , 1823-1826.

Nieder,  A.,  and  Wagner,  H.  (2001).  Hierarchical  processing  of  horizontal  disparity information in the visual forebrain of behaving owls. J. Neurosci. 21 , 4514-4522.

Ohzawa, I. (1998). Mechanisms of stereoscopic vision: the disparity energy model. Curr Opin Biolo. 8 , 509-515.

Ohzawa, I., DeAngelis, G.C., and Freeman, R.D. (1990). Stereoscopic depth discrimination in the visual cortex: neurons ideally suited as disparity detectors. Science 249 , 1037-1041.

Ohzawa, I., DeAngelis, G.C., and Freeman, R.D. (1997). Encoding of binocular disparity by complex cells in the catÕs visual cortex. J. Neurophysiol. 77 , 2879-2909.

Orban, G.A., Janssen, P., and Vogels, R. (2006). Extracting 3D structure from disparity. Trends Neurosci. 29 , 466-473.

Palanca, B.J.A., and DeAngelis, G.C. (2003). Macaque middle temporal neurons signal depth in the absence of motion. J. Neurosci. 23 , 7647-7658.

Parker,  A.J.  (2007).  Binocular  depth  perception  and  the  cerebral  cortex.  Nat.  Rev. Neurosci. 8 , 379-391.

Poggio, G., and Fischer, B. (1977). Binocular interaction and depth sensitivity in striate and prestriate cortex of behaving rhesus monkey. J. Neurophysiol. 40 , 1392-1405.

Poggio, G.F., Gonzalez, F., and Krause, F. (1988). Stereoscopic mechanisms in monkey visual cortex: binocular correlation and disparity selectivity. J. Neurosci. 8 , 4531-4550.

Prince,  S.J.D.,  Pointon,  A.D.,  Cumming,  B.G.,  and  Parker,  A.J.  (2002).  Quantitative analysis  of  the  responses  of  V1  neurons  to  horizontal  disparity  in  dynamic  random-dot stereograms. J. Neurophysiol. 87 , 191Ð208.

Rauschecker,  J.P.,  and  Scott,  S.K.  (2009).  Maps  and  streams  in  the  auditory  cortex: nonhuman primates illuminate human speech processing. Nat. Neurosci. 12 , 718-724.

Read, J.C.A., and Cumming, B.G. (2004). Ocular dominance predicts neither strength nor class of disparity selectivity with random-dot stimuli in primate V1. J. Neurophysiol. 91 , 1271-1281.

Read, J.C.A., and Cumming, B.G. (2007). Sensors for impossible stimuli may solve the stereo correspondence problem. Nat. Neurosci. 10 , 1322-1328.

Roe, A.W., Chelazzi, L., Connor, C.E., Conway, B.R., Fujita, I., Gallant, J.L., Lu, H., and Vanduffel, W. (2012). Toward a unified theory of visual area V4. Neuron 74 , 12-29.

Samonds, J.M., Potetz, B.R., Tyler, C.W., and Lee T.S., (2013). Recurrent connectivity can account for the dynamics of disparity processing in V1. J. Neurosci. 33 , 2934-2946.

Saur, D., Kreher, B.W., Schnell, S., Kummerer, D., Kellmeyer, P., Vry, MS., Umarova, R., Musso, M., Glauche, V., Abel, S., Huber, W., Rijntjes, M., Hennig, J., and Weiller, C.

(2008).  Ventral  and  dorsal  pathway  for  language.  Proc.  Natl.  Acad.  Sci.  USA 105 , 18035-18040.

Seidemann, E., Poirson, A.B., Wandell, B.A., and Newsome, W.T. (1999). Color signals in area MT of the macaque monkey. Neuron 24 , 911-917.

Sereno, A.B., and Maunsell, J.H.R. (1998). Shape selectivity in primate lateral intraparietal cortex. Nature 395 , 500-503.

Shiozaki, H.M., Tanabe, S., Doi, T., and Fujita, I. (2012). Neural activity in cortical area V4 underlies fine disparity discrimination. J. Neurosci. 32 , 3830-3841.

Takemura,  A.,  Inoue,  Y.,  Kawano,  K.,  Qualia,  C.,  and  Miles,  F.A.  (2001).  Single-unit activity in cortical area MST associated with disparity-vergence eye movements: evidence for population coding. J. Neurophysiol. 85 , 2245-2266.

Tanabe,  S.,  and  Cumming,  B.G.  (2008).  Mechanisms  underlying  the  transformation  of disparity signals from V1 to V2 in the macaque. J. Neurosci. 28 , 11304-11314.

Tanabe, S., Doi, T., Umeda, K., and Fujita, I. (2005). Disparity-tuning characteristics of neuronal  responses  to  dynamic  random-dot  stereograms  in  macaque  visual  area  V4.  J. Neurophysiol. 94 , 2683-2699.

Tanabe,  S.,  Umeda,  K.,  and  Fujita,  I.  (2004).  Rejection  of  false  matches  for  binocular correspondence in macaque visual cortical area V4. J. Neurosci. 24 , 8170-8180.

Tanabe,  S.,  Yasuoka,  S.,  and  Fujita,  I.  (2008).  Disparity-energy  signals  in  perceived stereoscopic depth. J. Vis. 8 , 1-10.

Theys, T., Srivastava, S., van Loon, J., Goffin, J., and Janssen, P. (2012). Selectivity for three-dimensional contours and surfaces in the anterior intraparietal area. J. Neurophysiol. 107 , 995-1008.

Uka,  T.,  and  DeAngelis,  G.C.  (2003).  Contribution  of  middle  temporal  area  to  coarse depth discrimination: comparison of neuronal and psychophysical sensitivity. J. Neurosci. 23 , 3515-3530.

Uka,  T.,  and  DeAngelis,  G.C.  (2004).  Contribution  of  area  MT  to  stereoscopic  depth perception: choice-related response modulations reflect task strategy. Neuron 42 , 297-310.

Uka,  T.,  and  DeAngelis,  G.C.  (2006).  Linking  neural  representation  to  function  in stereoscopic  depth  perception:  roles  of  the  middle  temporal  area  in  coarse  versus  fine disparity discrimination. J. Neurosci., 25 , 6791-6802.

Uka,  T.,  Tanaka  H.,  Kato  M.,  and  Fujita  I.  (1999).  Behavioral  evidence  for  visual perception of 3-dimensional surface structures in monkeys. Vision Res., 39 , 2399-2410.

Umeda, K., Tanabe, S., and Fujita, I. (2007). Representation of stereoscopic depth based on relative disparity in macaque area V4. J. Neurophysiol. 98 , 241-252.

Ungerleider,  L.G.,  and  Mishkin,  M.  (1979).  The  striate  projection  zone  in  the  superior temporal  sulcus  in Macaca  mulatta :  location  and  topographic  organization.  J.  Comp. Neurol. 188 , 347-366.

Ungerleider, L.G., and Mishkin, M. (1982). Two cortical visual systems. In Analysis of Visual  Behavior,  Ingle,  D.J.,  Goodale  M.A.,  Mansfield,  R.J.W.  eds.  (Cambridge,  MA: MIT press), pp. 549Ð586.

Van Essen, D.C., Maunsell, J.H., and Bixby, J.L. (1981). The middle temporal visual area in  the  macaque:  myeloarchitecture,  connections,  functional  properties,  and  topographic organization. J. Comp. Neurol. 199 , 293Ð326.

Van Polanen, V., and Davare, M. (2015). Interactions between dorsal and ventral streams for controlling skilled grasp. Neuropsychologia 79 , 186-191.

Verhoef,  B.E.,  Vogels,  R.,  and  Janssen,  P.  (2016).  Binocular  depth  processing  in  the ventral pathway. Phil. Trans. R. Soc. B 20150259.

Wang,  Q.,  Sporns,  O.,  and  Burkhalter,  A.  (2012).  Network  analysis  of  corticocortical connections  reveals  ventral  and  dorsal  processing  streams  in  mouse  visual  cortex.  J. Neurosci. 32 , 4386-4399.

Welchman, A.E. (2016). The human brain in depth: how we see in 3D. Annu. Rev. Vis. Sci. 2 , 345-376.

Westheimer,  G.,  and  Mitchell,  A.M.  (1956).  Eye  movement  responses  to  convergence stimuli. A.M.A. Archives Ophthalmology, 55 , 848-856.

Yamane, Y., Carlson, E.T., Bowman, J.C., Wang, Z., and Connor, C.E. (2008). A neural code  for  three-dimensional  object  shape  in  macaque  inferotemporal  cortex.  Nature Neurosci. 11 , 1352-1360.

made available under aCC-BY-NC 4.0 International license. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.10.985721; this version posted March 10, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint

## Supplemental Information

GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/CMTRYH+MS-PGothic&gt;

GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/CMTRYH+MS-PGothic&gt;

Specialization of mid-tier stages of dorsal and ventral pathways GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/CMTRYH+MS-PGothic&gt; in stereoscopic processing

GLYPH&lt;c=1,font=/CMTRYH+MS-PGothic&gt;

Toshihide W. Yoshioka, Takahiro Doi , Mohammad Abdolrahmani , Ichiro Fujita

Match-based

## MT neuron

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

## V4 neuron

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

Supplementary Figure1

Yoshioka et al.

<!-- image -->

Supplementary Figure 2

Yoshioka et al.

<!-- image -->

Supplementary Figure 3

Yoshioka et al.

<!-- image -->

Supplementary Figure 4

Yoshioka et al.

<!-- image -->

Supplementary Figure 5

Yoshioka et al.