made available under aCC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.23.002899; this version posted March 23, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint

Mass spectrometric characterisation of the circulating peptidome following oral glucose ingestion in control and gastrectomised patients.

Richard G. Kay, Rachel E. Foreman, Geoff P. Roberts, Richard Hardwick, Frank Reimann, Fiona M. Gribble.

Wellcome Trust - MRC Institute of Metabolic Science Metabolic Research Laboratories, Cambridge University, Addenbrookes Hospital, Cambridge, CB2 0QQ UK

made available under aCC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.23.002899; this version posted March 23, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint

## Abstract

Meal ingestion triggers secretion of a variety of gut and endocrine peptides, several of which are routinely measured in research studies by commercial immunoassays. We developed an LC-MS/MS based assay for parallel monitoring of multiple peptides in small volumes of human plasma, providing the  benefit  of  analysing  exact  peptide  sequences  rather  than  immuno-reactivity,  and  potential advantages  of  cost  and  sample  volumes  for  measuring  multiple  peptide  hormones.  The  method involves acetonitrile precipitation of larger proteins, followed by solid phase extraction and nano-LCMS/MS using an untargeted approach on an orbitrap mass spectrometer. Analysis of plasma from control  subjects  and  patients  who  have  undergone  gastrectomy  with  Roux-en-Y  reconstruction, revealed elevated levels of a number of peptides following glucose ingestion. These included GLP-1(736), GLP-1(9-36), glicentin, oxyntomodulin, GIP(1-42), GIP(3-42), PYY(1-36), PYY(3-36), neurotensin, insulin and C-peptide, as well as motilin, which decreased following glucose ingestion. Results showed good correlation with those peptides measured previously by immunoassay in the same samples. The gastrectomy group had higher, but non-glucose-dependent, circulating levels of peptides from PIGR and DMBT1.

Overall, the method is fast, generic, reproducible and inexpensive, and requires only small plasma samples, making it potentially adaptable for multiplexed measurement of a variety of peptides.

## Keywords (up to 10)

LC-MS/MS,  GLP-1,  PYY,  motilin,  insulin,  PIGR,  Plasma  peptidomics,  gastrectomy,  bariatric,  mass spectrometry, made available under aCC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.23.002899; this version posted March 23, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint

Introduction:

The gut and pancreas produce a variety of peptide involved in the coordination of intestinal functions, nutrient assimilation, glucose homeostasis and appetite 1 . Concentrations of peptides in the plasma are altered by fasting and feeding, and are routinely measured for diagnostic and research purposes using immunoassays employing high affinity antibodies. As the gut secretes more than 20 peptides 2 , research into intestinal physiology is currently hindered by the costs of measuring multiple peptides in parallel and the availability of validated assays. Analysis of individual peptides such as glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) and PeptideYY (PYY), has revealed that they play substantial roles in the gut-brain and gut-pancreatic axis, and supported the development of GLP-1 based therapies for the treatment of type 2 diabetes and obesity. There is great interest in developing new peptide based therapies for metabolic and intestinal diseases, but gaining a deeper understanding of the physiology of peptide secretion in patients is a critical step in any such drug discovery pathway.

In view of the success of surgical bariatric procedures for the treatment of obesity and type 2 diabetes, there  is  great  interest  in  understanding  the  underlying  physiological  mechanisms.  One  of  the commonest and most effective bariatric procedures is Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB) surgery, which promotes weight loss (thus increasing insulin sensitivity), and enhances insulin secretion, resulting in rapid resolution of type 2 diabetes with at least partial remission in ~60% of RYGB-patients 1 year post-surgery 3,4 . The mechanisms underlying these physiological changes are not fully resolved, but a considerable body of evidence points to important roles for peptides such as GLP-I and PYY 5 , which exhibit  profound  post-prandial  elevations  after  bariatric  surgery.  Postsurgical  changes  in  other peptides have been less studied, with some reports of raised and others of unaltered postprandial glucose-dependent  insulinotropic  polypeptide  (GIP)  excursions  and  more  sporadic  reports  on  the importance of other peptides which are elevated post-surgically such as Neurotensin (Nts) for surgery outcomes  7 8 .

made available under aCC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.23.002899; this version posted March 23, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint

The potential for LC-MS based methods to quantify peptides has been demonstrated previously, for example for proglucagon-derived peptides either following immuno-affinity based enrichment 9 or after depletion of abundant plasma proteins through  solvent precipitation followed by solid phase extraction (SPE) 10 . Whilst these approaches have demonstrated good sensitivity and good correlation with existing immunoassays, they used targeted approaches with triple quadrupole based detection systems,  requiring  prior  knowledge  of  the  analyte  under  investigation.  Alternatively,  the  plasma peptidome has been investigated  after  enzymatic  protein  digestion  in  an  untargeted  fashion,  but results  are  at  least  in  part  dominated  by  products  from  abundant  plasma  proteins,  only  partially resolved by specific pre-depletion 11 and interpretation might be complicated, when different peptides can be generated from the same prohormone as is the case for proglucagon derived peptides. In our view a better approach for analysing peptides by mass spectrometry in an untargeted fashion is to avoid enzymatic digestion 12 . We previously reported such an approach for plasma 13 from patients with endocrine tumours and for sorted cells 14 and tissue extracts from human brain 15 and intestines 16 . In this study, we compared changes in the plasma peptidome during an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) in subjects after gastrectomy surgery (a procedure resulting in an anatomy very similar to RYGB) and control subjects,  using an untargeted LC-MS/MS approach.

made available under aCC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.23.002899; this version posted March 23, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint

## Methods and materials:

## Patients and plasma samples:

Experiments were performed on plasma samples from a published study, which have previously been analysed by immunoassay for a range of gut and pancreatic peptides 10 . The study was approved by the National Health Service Research Ethics Committee and conducted in accordance with the ethical standards of the Helsinki Declaration of 1975. In brief, following an overnight fast, all participants drank 50g of glucose in 200ml water within a 5 minute period. Blood samples were collected into EDTA tubes immediately prior to glucose ingestion (time 0), and at 15, 30, 45, 60, 90, 120, 150 and 180 min post-ingestion. Samples were immediately placed on ice and centrifuged for 10 minutes at 3500g at 4 o C.  400µl  plasma  aliquots  were  snap  frozen on  dry ice  and  stored  at  -80 o C within 30 minutes of phlebotomy. Samples from one gastrectomy and one control subject were selected for the pilot study across all timepoints. Samples from 6 gastrectomy and 6 control subjects were selected for the main study analysis at 3 timepoints (0, 30 and 90 min).

## Chemicals:

Acetonitrile, methanol,  acetic acid and formic acid  were  purchased from Fisher Scientific, Dithiothreitol, iodoacetamide and bovine insulin were purchased from Sigma Aldrich.

## Extraction of plasma samples:

Plasma samples were thawed and extracted on ice to reduce peptidase-based degradation. Plasma (50 µL) was aliquoted in duplicate into a 2 mL 96 well plate and 300 µL of either 80% ACN in water or 80% ACN in water with 0.1% formic acid (FA), both fortified with bovine insulin at 1 ng/mL, were added to each replicate to precipitate high molecular weight proteins; the addition of bovine insulin was only introduced during the main study and omitted in the pilot study. The samples were spun at 3900 g and the supernatants from each time point were combined and transferred to a Lo-bind Eppendorf plate  and  evaporated  under  oxygen  free  nitrogen  (OFN)  at  40  ⁰C.  The  dried  extracts  were made available under aCC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.23.002899; this version posted March 23, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint

reconstituted into 200 µL of 0.1% FA and vortexed before transferring into a Waters Oasis HLB PRiME microelution 96 well plate and washed with 200 µL of 0.1% FA and 200 µL of 5% methanol in 1% acetic acid in water (v/v/v). Peptides were eluted with 2 x 30 µL aliquots of 60% methanol in water with 10% acetic acid (v/v/v). The eluants were dried under OFN and reconstituted with 150  l of 0.1% FA, of which 40  l were injected onto the nano-LC-MS system. During the pilot study an additional reduction alkylation was performed after the SPE, which was, however, not found to be necessary for sample analysis and reliable detection of insulin. In brief in the pilot study dried SPE-eluates were dissolved into 75 µL of 50 mM ammonium bicarbonate with 10 mM DTT and  reduced at 60 ⁰C for 1 hour. Peptides were alkylated by the addition of 15 µL of 100 mM iodoacetamide in 50 mM ammonium bicarbonate in the dark for 30 minutes. 20 µL of 1% FA was added and 40 µL of sample injected onto the nano LC-MS system.

## Nano LC-MS/MS analysis

Peptide extracts were analysed using a Thermo Fisher Ultimate 3000 nano LC system coupled to a Q Exactive Plus Orbitrap mass spectrometer (Thermo Scientific, San Jose, CA, USA). Extracts were loaded onto a 0.3 × 5 mm peptide trap column (Thermo Scientific) at a flow rate of 30 μL/min and washed for 15 min before switching in line with a 0.075 × 250 mm nano easy column (Thermo Scientific) flowing at 300 nL/min. Both nano and trap column temperatures were set at 45°C. The mobile phases were A: 0.1% FA in water (v/v) and B: 0.1% FA (v/v) in 80:20 ACN/water. Initial conditions were 2.5% B and held for 15 mins. A ramp to 50% B was performed over 90 mins, and the column then washed with 90% B for 20 mins before returning to starting conditions for a further 20 mins, totalling an entire run time of 130 mins. Positive nano electrospray analysis was performed using a spray voltage of 1.8 kV, the tune settings for the mass spectrometer used an S-lens setting of 70 V to target peptides of higher m/z values. A full scan range of 400-1600 m/z was performed at a resolution of 75,000 before the top made available under aCC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.23.002899; this version posted March 23, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint

10 ions of each spectrum were selected for MS/MS analysis. Existing ions selected for fragmentation were added to an exclusion list for 30 s.

## Database searching:

LC-MS data were searched using the PEAKS 8.5 software (BSI, Waterloo, Canada) against the human Swissprot database (downloaded 27-10-2017) using a non-specific digest setting. When extracts had been reduced and alkylated, a fixed carboxamidomethylation modification was applied to cysteine residues.  Variable  modifications  included  N-terminal  acetylation,  N-terminal  pyroglutamate,  Cterminal  amidation  and  methionine  oxidation.  An  FDR  setting  of  1%  was  used  against  a  decoy database, and precursor and product ion tolerances were set as 10 ppm and 0.05 m/z respectively. The main study cohort data were put through the PEAKSQ software extension to identify potential biomarker peptides in the dataset, manually adding peak areas of bovine insulin as a normalising factor.

## Manual LC-MS data searching and peptide quantitation:

The LC-MS/MS and DDA based analysis combined with database searching failed to identify some of the expected gut peptides in all samples. However, in order to obtain a database match, peptides must be both selected for MS/MS fragmentation, and generate a suitably high quality product ion spectrum for  the  PEAKS  software  to  match  against  the  database.  Some  gut  peptides  are  present  at concentrations in the low pg/ml range, therefore in the presence of other higher concentration plasma peptides, may  not  be  selected for fragmentation. Furthermore,  if they were  selected for fragmentation,  their  product  ion  spectrum  might  not  contain  sufficient  data  for  a  strong  match. Therefore, in order to identify the presence of some of the peptides and to quantify other identified peptides, the theoretical m/z values for all peptides were used to interrogate the raw data using the Quan  Browser  software  program  (Thermo  Scientific)  (Table  1).  The  peak  for  each  peptide  was integrated at the expected retention times, with a minimum signal to noise of 3 required, default 9 smoothing added and using the genesis integration algorithm (Example integration shown in figure

S1). The data from specific peptides in the large cohort were normalised by expressing their peak areas as a ratio of the internal standard bovine insulin.

| Peptide name            |   Charge ( z ) | m/z values                                           |   RT (mins) |
|-------------------------|----------------|------------------------------------------------------|-------------|
| GRPP                    |              4 | 846.63, 846.88, 847.13, 847.38                       |          43 |
| OXN                     |              7 | 636.46, 636.60, 636.75, 636.89                       |          58 |
| Glicentin               |              7 | 1157.84, 1157.98, 1158.13, 1158.27, 1158.41, 1158.56 |          56 |
| GLP-I 7-36 amide        |              4 | 824.91, 825.18, 825.43                               |          72 |
| GLP-I 9-36 amide        |              4 | 772.90, 773.15, 773.40, 773.65, 773.90               |          77 |
| PYY 1-36 amide          |              7 | 616.60, 616.75, 616.89, 617.04                       |          60 |
| PYY 3-36 amide          |              7 | 579.30, 579.45, 579.59                               |          58 |
| Insulin (intact)        |              5 | 1162.14, 1162.34, 1162.54, 1162.74, 1162.94          |          66 |
| Insulin A-chain         |              2 | 1306.05, 1306.55, 1307.05, 1307.55                   |          66 |
| Insulin B-chain         |              5 | 709.35, 709.55, 709.75, 709.95, 710.15               |          60 |
| C-peptide               |              3 | 1007.17, 1007.51, 1007.84, 1008.18                   |          75 |
| Bovine insulin (intact) |              5 | 1147.13, 1147.33, 1147.53, 1147.73, 1147.93, 1148.13 |          65 |
| GIP propeptide          |              7 | 455.24, 455.39, 455.53, 455.67                       |          31 |
| GIP 1-42                |              6 | 831.25, 831.41, 831.58, 831.75, 831.91               |          62 |
| GIP 3-42                |              7 | 792.23, 792.40, 792.56, 792.73, 792.90               |          60 |
| Neurotensin             |              3 | 558.31, 558.64, 558.98                               |          43 |
| Motilin                 |              6 | 540.48, 540.68, 540.88, 541.08                       |          48 |
| Adrenomedullin (45-92)  |              8 | 640.08, 640.20, 640.45, 640.58                       |          48 |
| Augurin                 |              6 | 498.11, 498.28, 498.45, 498.61                       |          42 |

Table  1. List of peptides selected for manual data searching for quantitation in OGTT samples, along with the m/z values associated with the monoisotopic and multiple 13 C isotope peaks. Peptide m/z values were taken from either the PEAKS results or from a previous peptidomics manuscript 2 . See supplemental  data  for  extracted  ion  chromatograms,  experimentally  acquired  m/z  values  and theoretical m/z values for chosen charge states.

## Immunoassays:

Immunoassays on these samples have been described previously 10 . In brief, total GLP-1, total GIP and total PYY were measured using Mesoscale Discovery (MesoScale Diagnostics, Rockville, USA) assays according  to  the  manufacturer's  instructions.  Insulin  concentrations  were  measured  using  the Diasorin Liaison XL insulin system (Diasorin, Milan, Italy).

made available under aCC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.23.002899; this version posted March 23, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint

## Results

## Full OGTT sample comparison in two subjects

A pilot study was performed to examine the plasma peptidome at multiple time points following a 50g OGTT  in  one  gastrectomy  subject  and  one  healthy  control  subject,  generating  data  about  which peptides were detectable, which appeared different following gastrectomy, and the best time points for further testing in a main study cohort. A number of circulating peptides were detected, including gut and pancreatic peptides, fibrinogen fragments, hepcidin, thymosin, bradykinin and angiotensin. Many of the identified gut derived peptides showed clear time dependent changes after on OGTT, as shown in Figure 1. Previously published ELISA results from these 2 subjects are shown in Figure S2.

Extracts  from  the  gastrectomy  subject  returned more  gut  peptide  identifications  than  the  control subject, in particular peptides from the proglucagon gene, which included OXN, active GLP-1 7-36 amide and GLP-1 9-36 amide, the inactive cleavage product of dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP4) digestion, their levels over the OGTT can be seen in Figures 1A-C.  Another intestinally proglucagon-derived peptide,  glicentin,  comprising  the  N-terminal  part  of  proglucagon,  including  both  the  GRPP  and oxyntomodulin sequence, which has 68 amino acids - too large to be identified by PEAKS, which has a cut-off of 65 amino acids. Manual examination of the raw data for the expected m/z of its [M+7H] 7+ charge state showed glicentin was present in the gastrectomy subject, but not the control subject (Figure 1D). The only other proglucagon derived peptide we were able to detect was GRPP, which was detectable in both the post-gastrectomy subject and the control subject, if at lower levels in the latter (Figure 1E).

The analysis also identified peptides from GIP and motilin, a peptide involved in gut motility 17 , both of which are expressed at highest levels in the proximal small intestine (duodenum/jejunum) 2 . Motilin was readily detectable in both subjects and levels dropped after glucose ingestion in both cases (Figure made available under aCC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.23.002899; this version posted March 23, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint

1F). With the exception of active GIP 1-42 (Figure 1G), which we could not detect in the control subject, GIP-derived peptides (GIP-prepeptide, representing the first cleaved peptide, N-terminal to the active hormone and GIP 3-42, an inactive product of GIP 1-42 digestion by DPP4)  (Figure 1H,I) were readily detectable  in  both  subjects  and  rose  after  the  OGTT,  reaching  higher  levels  in  the  gastrectomy samples. Neurotensin, a peptide thought to arise mostly from the distal small intestine, rose after the OGTT in both subjects, but to a greater extent and earlier in the gastrectomy subject (Figure 1J). PYY, a peptide expressed at higher levels in the more distal intestine was only identifiable in the plasma database search after correction of the Uniprot database. Whereas the first 8 N-terminal amino acids of PYY 1-36 are designated as IKPEAP R E in the standard Uniprot database, the correct sequence is IKPEAP G E.  Both  full  length  PYY  1-36  amide  and  DPP4-cleaved  PYY  3-36  amide  (Figure  1K,L)  were detected in the gastrectomy, but not the control subject.

The LC-MS analysis readily detected insulin A, B and C peptides (Figure 1 M-O), the time-profiles of which  mirrored  the  immunoassay  derived  insulin  concentrations  in  the  same  samples  published previously (Figure S2, 10 ).  Plasma concentrations of insulin and its C-peptide are about 2 orders of magnitude higher than those of proglucagon-derived peptides, and are well within the sensitivity of the  LC-MS  system,  as  we  have  previously  demonstrated 18 .  A  correlation  of  the  insulin  ELISA concentration against the B-chain peptide peak area across these 2 participants gave an R 2 value of 0.9849, showing very comparable data between the two analytical approaches, despite the LC-MS data not being transformed or normalised in any way.

## Peptidomics analysis of 6 gastrectomy and 6 control subjects

We next analysed plasma samples from 6 gastrectomy subjects and 6 control cubjects taken at 0, 30 and 90 min after the 50g OGTT, using the same analytical protocol but omitting the reduction/alkylation step (leaving insulin and other disulphide bonded peptides intact). The PEAKS output identified similar peptides to those found in the pilot study, including a number of distinct made available under aCC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.23.002899; this version posted March 23, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint

products from the PYY, proglucagon and GIP genes, together with motilin and C-peptide. Peak areas of all previously described peptides were subsequently generated by interrogation of the raw data using the Quan Browser software, along with peak areas of intact insulin and the internal standard bovine insulin. The addition of bovine insulin as an internal standard enabled normalisation of the peak area for each peptide to that of bovine insulin in the same sample, generating semi-quantitative peak area ratios for each analyte. The peak areas of the detected bovine insulin internal standard over the  36  nano  LC-MS  analyses  was  consistent,  with  a  %CV  of  11.9%,  indicating  that  the  extraction process and LC-MS analysis were robust and reproducible.

Peak area ratios of the selected peptides at 0, 30 and 90 min after the OGTT are depicted in Figure 2. Confirming the pilot data and previously generated results from immunoassays 10 ,  plasma levels of insulin,  PYY,  proglucagon-derived  peptides  and  neurotensin  were  elevated  after  the  OGTT  in gastrectomy subjects  compared  with  control  subjects,  whereas  GIP-derived  peptides  were  largely similar between the groups. As we have previously analysed several gut hormones in these samples by immunoassays, using commercial kits against total GLP-1 (GLP-I 7-36 and GLP-I 9-36 combined), total GIP (GIP 1-42 and GIP 3-42 combined), total PYY (PYY 1-36 and PYY 3-36 combined) and insulin, we  examined  the  performance  of  the  LC-MS  approach,  by  comparing  LC-MS  results  against  the corresponding immunoassay values (Figure 3). Across the 12 subjects, there was excellent correlation between insulin levels measured with the two assay methods (R 2 = 0.9837). Immunoassay-determined total GLP-1 correlated reasonably with the peak area ratio for GLP-1 9-36 amide (the major circulating form of GLP-1 detected by LC-MS; R 2 = 0.73), and slightly better with the sum of GLP-1 7-36 and GLP1 9-36 (R 2 = 0.80) or GRPP (R 2 = 0.84), which is co-released from intestinal L-cells but can also arise from  glucagon-producing  pancreatic  alpha-cells.  Individual  GIP-derived  peptide  LC-MS  data  were correlated with total GIP immunoassay results, but also improved when summing results from both the GIP 1-42 and 3-42 peptides. GIP prepeptide, comprising the cleaved peptide cleaved from the prohormone on the N-terminal side of GIP, was more readily detectable by LC-MS than GIP 1-42 or 342 but its  levels  correlated  less  well  with  the  immunoassay than  GIP  3-42 or total  GIP.  Total  PYY

made available under aCC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.23.002899; this version posted March 23, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint measured by immunoassay correlated well with peak area ratios for PYY 3-36 amide (R 2 = 0.93) and total PYY (1-36 amide + 3-36 amide; R 2 = 0.94), whereas the correlation against PYY 1-36 amide alone was weaker at R 2 = 0.78.

## PEAKSQ analysis from 6 gastrectomy and 6 control subjects

Analysis using the PEAKSQ module, manually adding the bovine insulin peak area as a normalising factor, enabled interrogation of the entire dataset for plasma peptidomic differences between control and gastrectomy subjects. Across all timepoints, a number of likely false positives were detected, including peptides from fibrinogen and globins, and closer interrogation of the data revealed that the PEAKSQ software was selecting up to three peptides for quantitation out of the many identified from the  same  parent  protein,  whereas  other  peptides  from  the  same  parent  exhibited  either  no differences  or  changes  in  the  opposite  direction.  In  the  dataset  collected  30  min  after  glucose ingestion,  PEAKSQ  correctly  identified  that  insulin,  GIP  and  proglucagon  products  were  higher  in gastrectomy than control participants, supporting the data presented in Figures 1 and 2, but did not identify differences in any other known and identified bioactive peptides. Across all samples, PEAKSQ identified raised levels of peptide fragments from two larger proteins, PIGR (polymeric immunoglobulin receptor) and DMBT1 (Deleted in malignant brain tumours 1) (Figure 4), which are both  known to  be  enriched  in  the  gastrointestinal  tract 19 .  PIGR  has  a  large  extracellular  domain involved in binding IgA and IgM for translocation across epithelia, a single transmembrane domain and a short intracellular C-terminus. Peptides identified from PIGR included the sequences 598-639, 598-648, 604-639, 605-648, 607-648, 610-648 and 604-648, which mainly comprise of the C-terminus of the extracellular domain (19-638) and part of the transmembrane domain (639-661). Across all time points, all peptides derived from PIGR had higher peak areas in gastrectomy than control subjects (e.g. p=0.009 for fragment 598-648 by 2-way ANOVA). One peptide fragment from DMBT1 (amino acids 2385-2413  from  the  C-terminus)  was  higher  in  plasma  from  gastrectomy  patients  than  controls made available under aCC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.23.002899; this version posted March 23, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint

(p=0.017 by 2-way ANOVA). Figure 4 also shows the peak areas of two unrelated peptides that were detected in the plasma for comparison. For these two peptides,  Augurin 42-68 (a C-terminal fragment of a propeptide containing residues 32-68) and Adrenomedullin 45-92 which is an intact propeptide sequence, where no significant differences between the control and gastrectomised subjects were observed.

## Discussion

We have demonstrated that a simple, high throughput and inexpensive plasma peptide extraction methodology can be combined with nano LC-MS/MS analysis to study gross changes in the plasma peptidome  following  gastrectomy  surgery.  Insulin  and  C-peptide  were  readily  detectable  by  LCMS/MS in all participants and correlated well with immunoassay derived concentrations across the full range of the fasting and stimulated levels found in the subjects tested. Gut peptides circulate at lower concentrations than insulin, and were more difficult to detect by LC-MS/MS, although in the gastrectomy  samples  we  readily  identified  a  number  of  gut  hormones  believed  to  contribute  to metabolic improvements after bariatric surgery (GLP-I, OXN, GIP, PYY and Neurotensin). We previously reported  substantially  elevated  plasma  levels  during  an  OGTT  in  this  group  for  GLP-1  and  PYY, measured by immunoassays and the multiplex LC-MS/MS results reported here correlate well with the historical data. Post-gastrectomy anatomy is strikingly similar to post-RYGB anatomy (with the additional total removal of the stomach remnant in the former), but in the predominantly lean postgastrectomy cohort the excessive insulin secretion often results in postprandial hypoglycaemia, which can  be  alleviated  by  GLP1R-blockage 16 ,  with  similar  observations  having  been  reported  in  RYGBpatients after weight-loss 20 .

Most gut peptides, however, were below the detection limit in control subjects, and only identifiable in a few control subject samples after interrogation of the raw data. For example, the active form of GLP-1  (GLP-1  7-36  amide)  was  not  detected  in  plasma  from  the  control  subject  as  normal made available under aCC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.23.002899; this version posted March 23, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint

concentrations  are  less  than  10  pmol/l 21 ,  below  the  detection  limit  of  our  generic  nano  LC-MS approach.  However, where immunoassay data were available, the LC-MS peak area ratios for postOGTT  gut  hormone  levels  in  the  gastrectomy  group  correlated  well  with  immunoassay-derived concentrations. This indicates that the developed method is inherently quantitative, and is therefore applicable for the further development of fully quantitative studies using peptide standards and stable isotope labelled internal standards 10 . Arguably, our results suggest that nano LC-MS approaches are well  suited  for  monitoring  multiple  peptides  in  parallel  in  small  plasma  samples.  The  sensitivity achieved was in the low tens of picograms per millilitre of plasma, which could potentially be improved upon by using more targeted SRM based analysis rather than the full scan function used in the data dependent acquisition  technique  on  the  Orbitrap.  Indeed,  we  have  reported  post-OGTT  glucagon excursions quantified by LC-MS/MS in these patients and the controls using a targeted approach 10 . However, in its current guise, the approach could be used for monitoring gut peptide release in postgastric bypass patients. Other groups have studied the plasma peptidome of patients post RYGB by LC-MS and detected raised oxyntomodulin (OXN) levels 11 ,  but  their  approach involved substantial sample work-up including enzymatic digestion of target peptides which complicates interpretation of the source of the resulting peptides as OXN also contains sequences present in both glucagon and glicentin (two other peptides produced from the proglucagon gene, which are easily distinguished by our method). In this context, although the presence of raised plasma glucagon after gastric bypass has been reported 22 , our analysis did not identify glucagon in the plasma despite elevated glicentin and OXN (Figure  1)  and  we  previously  have  shown  similar  relatively  small  glucagon-excursions  in  the control and post-gastrectomy patients 10 .

The  peptidomics  approach  identified  some  non-glucose  dependent  peptides  that  appeared  to differentiate the gastrectomy from the control subjects. These peptides were derived from proteins that have been attributed to host responses to infection in the gut (PIGR and DMBT1) and were higher in concentration in the gastrectomy group. PIGR binds polymeric immunoglobulins on the basolateral epithelial surface, transports them to the apical membrane in vesicular structures, and is then cleaved made available under aCC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.23.002899; this version posted March 23, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint

to release its immunoglobulin cargo into the gut lumen 23 . Our detection of PIGR-derived peptides in the plasma likely reflects either cleavage occurring at the basolateral membrane, or reabsorption of cleaved PIGR peptides from the lumen. Our finding that several circulating PIGR-derived peptides contained part of the transmembrane domain suggests that cleavage may involve gamma-secretase. Release of the PIGR extracellular domain or PIGR-derived peptides into the circulation has not been described previously, and further studies will be required to determine whether PIGR-derived plasma peptides have biological activity. DMBT1 is large secreted protein found in intestine and saliva 24 and is also known as salivary agglutinin, surfactant pulmonary-associated D-binding protein, and Hensin. DMBT1 is reported to play a role in intestinal microbial defence 25 , and is upregulated in individuals with irritable bowel disease and other diseases of the intestinal tract 26 . As both PIGR and DMBT1 have been implicated in host defence, we speculate that their detection at higher levels post gastrectomy may reflect an increased load of intestinal microbiota, as gastrectomy patients frequently suffer from small  intestinal  bacterial  overgrowth  and  PIGR  expression  is  known  to  be  activated  by  microbial products such as LPS 27 .

## Conclusions

The described peptidomics approach employs a generic protein precipitation approach (followed by SPE) for enriching for circulating peptides whilst removing high abundance and high molecular weight proteins such as albumin and immunoglobulins. The approach requires only small volumes of plasma (50 µl) and is a fast, generic, reproducible and inexpensive method for studying an under-researched area, the plasma peptidome. Whilst the method was used in a semi quantitative fashion, it generated data  that  showed  a  good  correlation  with  existing  immunologically  derived  plasma  peptide concentrations. The peptidomics analysis identified similar increases in known bioactive peptides after gastrectomy, however the sensitivity of the approach wasn't sufficient to detect peptides circulating in the low pg/ml concentrations in the control subjects. Whilst no new glucose dependent peptide changes were detected, peptides from DMBT and PIGR appeared raised after gastrectomy, and will made available under aCC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.23.002899; this version posted March 23, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint

require further studies to investigate whether they could be used as biomarkers for intestinal infection or inflammation.

## SUPPORTING INFORMATION:

Figure  S1.  Typical  integration  of  insulin  in  control  subject  time  point  of  30  minutes  post  glucose ingestion. Image shows peak retention time and MS spectra of intact insulin.

Figure S2. Immunoassay derived plasma concentrations of insulin, GIP (total measurement of 1-42 and 3-42), GLP-I (total measurement of 7-36 and 9-36) and Peptide YY.

## Acknowledgements

We thank the participating  patients  and  the  Cambridge  Oesophago-gastric  unit,  the  NIHR  Clinical Research Facility (CRF) and the Translation Research Facility (TRF) and Keith Burling, Peter Barker and the staff at the NIHR BRC Core Biochemical Assay Laboratory (supported by the MRC [MRC\_MC\_UU\_ 344 12012/5] and Wellcome Trust [100574/Z/12/Z]) for support of this study.

## Funding statement.

This research was funded by a Wellcome joint investigator award to FR/FMG (106262/Z/14/Z and 106263/Z/14/Z) and a joint MRC programme within the Metabolic Diseases Unit (MRC\_MC\_UU\_12012/3) and an EFSD/Novo Nordisk Programme for Diabetes Research in Europe. The LC-MS instrument was funded by the MRC 'Enhancing UK clinical research' grant (MR/M009041/1). RF  is  a  BBSRC-iCase  PhD  student  in  collaboration  with  LGC  Ltd.  GPR  received  an  Addenbrooke's Charitable Trust / Evelyn Trust Cambridge Clinical Research Fellowship [16-69] and a Royal College of Surgeons Research Fellowship.

made available under aCC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.23.002899; this version posted March 23, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint made available under aCC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.23.002899; this version posted March 23, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint

## References

- (1) Gribble, F. M.; Reimann, F. Function and Mechanisms of Enteroendocrine Cells and Gut Hormones in Metabolism. Nat. Rev. Endocrinol. 2019 , 15 (4), 226-237.
- (2) Roberts, G. P.; Larraufie, P.; Richards, P.; Kay, R. G.; Galvin, S. G.; Miedzybrodzka, E. L.; Leiter, A.; Li, H. J.; Glass, L. L.; Ma, M. K. L.; et al. Comparison of Human and Murine Enteroendocrine Cells by Transcriptomic and Peptidomic Profiling. Diabetes 2019 , 68 (5), 1062-1072.
- (3) Courcoulas, A. P. Weight Change and Health Outcomes at Three Years After Bariatric Surgery Among Patients with Severe Obesity. Jama 2013 , 310 (22), 2416-2425.
- (4) Cummings, D. E.; Arterburn, D. E.; Westbrook, E. O.; Kuzma, J. N.; Stewart, S. D.; Chan, C. P.; Bock, S. N.; Landers, J. T.; Kratz, M.; Foster-Schubert, K. E.; et al. Gastric Bypass Surgery vs Intensive Lifestyle and Medical Intervention for Type 2 Diabetes: The CROSSROADS Randomised Controlled Trial. Diabetologia 2016 , 59 (5), 945-953.
- (5) Behary, P.; Tharakan, G.; Alexiadou, K.; Johnson, N.; Albrechtsen, N. J. W.; Kenkre, J.; Cuenco, J.; Hope, D.; Anyiam, O.; Choudhury, S.; et al. Combined GLP-1 , Oxyntomodulin , and Peptide YY Improves Body Weight and Glycemia in Obesity and Prediabetes / Type 2 Diabetes : A Randomized Single-Blinded Placebo Controlled Study. 2019 , 1-8.
- (6) Jacobsen, S. H.; Olesen, S. C.; Dirksen, C.; Jørgensen, N. B.; Bojsen-Møller, K. N.; Kielgast, U.; Worm, D.; Almdal, T.; Naver, L. S.; Hvolris, L. E.; et al. Changes in Gastrointestinal Hormone Responses, Insulin Sensitivity, and Beta-Cell Function within 2 Weeks after Gastric Bypass in Non-Diabetic Subjects. Obes. Surg. 2012 , 22 (7), 1084-1096.
- (7) Ratner, C.; Skov, L. J.; Raida, Z.; Bächler, T.; Bellmann-Sickert, K.; Foll, C. Le; Sivertsen, B.; Dalbøge, L. S.; Hartmann, B.; Beck-Sickinger, A. G.; et al. Effects of Peripheral Neurotensin on Appetite Regulation and Its Role in Gastric Bypass Surgery. Endocrinology 2016 , 157 (9), 3482-3492.

made available under aCC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.23.002899; this version posted March 23, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint

- (8) Dimitriadis, G. K.; Randeva, M. S.; Miras, A. D. Potential Hormone Mechanisms of Bariatric Surgery. Curr. Obes. Rep. 2017 , 6 (3), 253-265.
- (9) Lee, A. Y. H.; Chappell, D. L.; Bak, M. J.; Judo, M.; Liang, L.; Churakova, T.; Ayanoglu, G.; Castro-Perez, J.; Zhou, H.; Previs, S.; et al. Multiplexed Quantification of Proglucagon-Derived Peptides by Immunoaffinity Enrichment and Tandem Mass Spectrometry after a Meal Tolerance Test. Clin. Chem. 2016 , 62 (1), 227-235.
- (10) Roberts, G. P.; Kay, R. G.; Howard, J.; Hardwick, R. H.; Reimann, F.; Gribble, F. M. Gastrectomy with Roux-En-Y Reconstruction as a Lean Model of Bariatric Surgery. Surg. Obes. Relat. Dis. 2018 , 14 (5), 562-568.
- (11) Wewer Albrechtsen, N. J.; Hornburg, D.; Albrechtsen, R.; Svendsen, B.; Toräng, S.; Jepsen, S. L.; Kuhre, R. E.; Hansen, M.; Janus, C.; Floyd, A.; et al. Oxyntomodulin Identified as a Marker of Type 2 Diabetes and Gastric Bypass Surgery by Mass-Spectrometry Based Profiling of Human Plasma. EBioMedicine 2016 , 7 , 112-120.
- (12) Parker, Benjamin L; James G. Burchfield; Clayton, D.; Geddes, T. A.; Payne, R. J.; Kiens, B.; Wojtaszewski, J.; Richter, E. A.; James, D. E. Multiplexed Temporal Quantification of the Exercise-Regulated Plasma Peptidome. Mol. Cell. Proteomics 2017 , 1-32.
- (13) Kay, R. G.; Challis, B. G.; Casey, R. T.; Roberts, G. P.; Meek, C. L.; Reimann, F.; Gribble, F. M. Peptidomic Analysis of Endogenous Plasma Peptides from Patients with Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumours. Rapid Commun. Mass Spectrom. 2018 .
- (14) Kay, R. G.; Galvin, S.; Larraufie, P.; Reimann, F.; Gribble, F. M. Liquid Chromatography/mass Spectrometry Based Detection and Semi-Quantitative Analysis of INSL5 in Human and Murine Tissues. Rapid Commun. Mass Spectrom. 2017 , 31 (23), 1963-1973.
- (15) Kirwan, P.; Kay, R. G.; Brouwers, B.; Herranz-pérez, V.; Jura, M.; Larrau, P.; Jerber, J.; Pembroke, J.; Bartels, T.; White, A.; et al. Quantitative Mass Spectrometry for Human

made available under aCC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.23.002899; this version posted March 23, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint

Melanocortin Peptides in Vitro and in Vivo Suggests Prominent Roles for B -MSH and Desacetyl a -MSH in Energy Homeostasis. 2018 , 17 (August).

- (16) Larraufie, P.; Roberts, G. P.; Mcgavigan, A. K.; Hardwick, R. H.; Reimann, F.; Gribble, F. M.; Larraufie, P.; Roberts, G. P.; Mcgavigan, A. K.; Kay, R. G.; et al. Important Role of the GLP-1 Axis for Glucose Homeostasis after Bariatric Surgery Report Important Role of the GLP-1 Axis for Glucose Homeostasis after Bariatric Surgery. CellReports 2019 , 26 (6), 1399-1408.e6.
- (17) Deloose, E.; Verbeure, W.; Depoortere, I.; Tack, J. Motilin: From Gastric Motility Stimulation to Hunger Signalling. Nat. Rev. Endocrinol. 2019 , 15 (4), 238-250.
- (18) Church, D.; Luıs Cardoso; Kay, R. G.; Williams, C. L.; Freudenthal, B.; Clarke, C.; Harris, J.; Moorthy, M.; Karra, E.; Gribble, F. M.; et al. Assessment andManagement of Anti-Insulin Autoantibodies in Varying Presentations of Insulin Autoimmune Syndrome. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 2018 , 103 (10), 3845-3855.
- (19) Mollenhauer, J.; Wiemann, S.; Scheurlen, W.; Korn, B.; Hayashi, Y.; Wilgenbus, K. K.; Deimling, A. Von; Poustka, A. DMBT1, a New Member of the SRCR Superfamily, on Chromosome 10q25.3-26.1 Is Deleted in Malignant Brain Tumours. Nat. Genet. 1997 , 17 (1), 32-39.
- (20) Craig, C. M.; Liu, L. F.; Deacon, C. F.; Holst, J. J.; McLaughlin, T. L. Critical Role for GLP-1 in Symptomatic Post-Bariatric Hypoglycaemia. Diabetologia 2017 , 60 (3), 531-540.
- (21) Vilsbøll, T.; Krarup, T.; Deacon, C. F.; Madsbad, S.; Holst, J. J. Reduced Postprandial Concentrations of Intact. Diabetes 2001 , 50 (3), 609-613.
- (22) Lund, A.; Bagger, J. I.; Albrechtsen, N. J. W.; Christensen, M.; Grøndahl, M.; Hartmann, B.; Mathiesen, E. R.; Hansen, C. P.; Storkholm, J. H.; Van Hall, G.; et al. Evidence of Extrapancreatic Glucagon Secretion in Man. Diabetes 2016 , 65 (3), 585-597.
- (23) Mostov, K. E.; Friedlander, M.; Blobel, G. The Receptor for Transepithelial Transport of IgA and IgM Contains Multiple Immunoglobulin-like Domains. Nature 1984 , 308 (5954), 37-43.

made available under aCC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.23.002899; this version posted March 23, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint

- (24) ERICSON, T.; RUNDEGREN, J. Characterization of a Salivary Agglutinin Reacting with a Serotype c Strain of Streptococcus Mutans. Eur. J. Biochem. 1983 , 133 (2), 255-261.
- (25) Rosenstiel, P.; Sina, C.; End, C.; Renner, M.; Lyer, S.; Till, A.; Hellmig, S.; Nikolaus, S.; Folsch, U. R.; Helmke, B.; et al. Regulation of DMBT1 via NOD2 and TLR4 in Intestinal Epithelial Cells Modulates Bacterial Recognition and Invasion. J. Immunol. 2014 , 178 (12), 8203-8211.
- (26) Renner, M.; Bergmann, G.; Krebs, I.; End, C.; Lyer, S.; Hilberg, F.; Helmke, B.; Gassler, N.; Autschbach, F.; Bikker, F.; et al. DMBT1 Confers Mucosal Protection In Vivo and a Deletion Variant Is Associated With Crohn's Disease. Gastroenterology 2007 , 133 (5), 1499-1509.
- (27) Schneeman, T. A.; Bruno, M. E. C.; Schjerven, H.; Johansen, F.-E.; Chady, L.; Kaetzel, C. S. Regulation of the Polymeric Ig Receptor by Signaling through TLRs 3 and 4: Linking Innate and Adaptive Immune Responses. J. Immunol. 2005 , 175 (1), 376-384.
- (28) Perez-Riverol, Y.; Csordas, A.; Bai, J.; Bernal-Llinares, M.; Hewapathirana, S.; Kundu, D. J.; Inuganti, A.; Griss, J.; Mayer, G.; Eisenacher, M.; et al. The PRIDE Database and Related Tools and Resources in 2019: Improving Support for Quantification Data. Nucleic Acids Res. 2019 , 47 (D1), D442-D450.

Figure 1. Plasma peptide peak area time courses for one gastrectomy and one control participant in the pilot study.

<!-- image -->

Plasma concentrations of the  peptides  indicated,  measured  by  LC-MS/MS  and  quantified  as  peak areas, in the 2 subjects at the indicated timepoints after a 50g OGTT.

Figure 2. Peptide peak area ratios from a group of control and gastrectomised individuals after OGTT.

<!-- image -->

Peak area ratios for the peptides indicated, measured by LC-MS/MS. Samples were taken at t=0, 30 and 90 min following a 50g OGTT in 6 healthy control and 6 gastrectomised individuals.

Figure 3. Correlations between plasma peptide measurements by LC-MS/MS and immunoassay.

<!-- image -->

Data from the 0, 30 and 90 min timepoints after the OGTT in control and gastrectomy subjects from Ffigure  2  are  plotted  as  peak  area  ratios  (y-axis)  for  the  peptides  indicated  against  previouslymeasured immunoassay levels in the same samples 10 . The immunoassays used were the total GLP-1, total  GIP  and  total  PYY  assays  from  MesoScale  Discovery.  Dashed  lines  show  the  line  of  best correlation, and correlation coefficients (R 2 ) are shown for each plot.

made available under aCC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.23.002899; this version posted March 23, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint

Figure 4. Peak area ratios of plasma peptides that were glucose independent

<!-- image -->

Peak area ratios for the peptides indicated, measured by LC-MS/MS. Samples were taken at t=0, 30 and 90 min following a 50g OGTT in 6 healthy control and 6 gastrectomised individuals. PIGR 598-648 is  illustrative  of  a  range  of  PIGR  peptides,  and  together  with  DMBT  2385-2413  was  higher  in gastrectomy than control individuals. Augurin (42-68) and ADM (45-92) are shown as examples of peptides that did not differ between groups.

made available under aCC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.23.002899; this version posted March 23, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint

Supplemental Figure S1. Example integration of insulin peptide in a 30 minute time point sample from a control subject.

<!-- image -->

Figure shows intact insulin peak, corresponding peptide isotope pattern and peak areas associated with this peptide in control subjects.

made available under aCC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license. (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.23.002899; this version posted March 23, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint

<!-- image -->

Supplemental Figure S2. Immunoassay derived peptide concentrations over an OGTT.

Plasma concentrations of insulin, GIP (total measurement of 1-42 and 3-42), GLP-I (total measurement of 7-36 and 9-36) and Peptide YY. Data clearly shows how gastric bypass results in increased release of insulin, GLP-I and PYY peptides in response to a glucose challenge.